· _ National Indian Law Library 
//\;" )United States Indian Claims Commi~ Basem~nt. -Indian Claims 
~ NILL No. Commlsslon Room -for photc 
August 13, 1946 September 30, 1978 
United States Indian Claims Commission Final Report August 13, 1946 September 30, 1978 




Commissioners: 
Jerome K. Kuykendali, Chairman 
John T. Vance 
Richard W. Yarborough 
Margaret H. Pierce 
Brantley Blue 
f 



t I 
i
I
IIij I 
Members of the Indian Claims Commission ! 
Edgar E. Witt (D-Texas) Appointed Chief Commissioner Apr. 10, 1947 
William M. Holt (R-Nebraska) 
Louis J. O'MaIT (D-Wyoming) 
Arthur V. Watkins (R-Utah) 
Appointed Chief Commissioner 
July I, 1960 

T. Harold Scott (D-Colorado) 
John T. Vance (D-Montana) 
Appointed Chairman 
Mar. 19, 1968 

Jerome K. Kuykendall (R-Virginia) Appointed Chairman June II, 1969 Richard W. Yarborough (D-Texas) Margaret H. Pierce (R-Wash., D.C.) Theodore R. McKeldin (R-Maryland) 
Brantley BIue (R-Tennessee) Apr. 10, 1947 -June 30, 1960 
Apr. 10, 1947 -June 30, 1968 Apr. 10, 1947 -July 31, 1959 Aug. 1.5, 1959 -Sep. 30, 1967 
July I, 1960 -June 30, 1968 Dec. 19, 1967 -Sep. 30, 1978 
Dec. 19, 1967 -Sep. 30, 1978 
Dec. 28, 1967 -Sep. 30, 1978 Oct. 16, 1968 -Sep. 30, 1978 Nov. 21, 1968 -May I, 1969 
(Interim Appointment) May 2, 1969 -Sep. 30, 1978 



Preface 
This is the Final Report of the Indian Claims Commission. Reports have been 
issued annually since 1968, but these were for the purpose of showing yearly 
progress. The Final Report is intended to give an expanded picture of the Commis­
sion and its work. In a document limited in extent, a good deal of material has had to 
be ignored or condensed. The intent is to explore briefly the scope ofthe problems 
of Indian claims. To do so we have included a concise history of the Commission. 
It briefly traces the origin of the Indian claims against the United States Govern­
ment and the attempt to resolve them in the Federal Courts; discusses the legisla­
tive history of the Indian Claims Commission Act; and surveys the growth and 
work of the Commission from its inception in August 1946 to its termination in 
September 1978. It is offered as an expanded chronology of legislative and admin­
istrative actions and avoids so far as possible discussion of the substance of the 
Commission's decisions. It does not represent the opinion of the Commission or 
any Commissioner. 
TheCommissionwasafacet in thecenturyanda halfoldprocess ofIndianclaims litigation. It did not create the claims but, in the more than 500 dockets that it decided, it succeeded in mitigating many of the problems which arose as a result of settlement and westward expansion in this country. Hopefully, interested parties will be enlightened with respect to the enormity of the task which faced the Com­mission from its inception. 
To this end, in addition to the historical survey, we have included an alphabetical index and a docket number index to the 617 dockets filed before the Commission. Also, we present a map which delineates the adjudicated land areas of the various Indian tribes. This map is the result of the labor of Commissioner Richard W. Yarborough and is further explained in the Commissioner's own preface to the map. 
We wish to thank those who have applied their time and effort to this work. Dr. Harvey D. Rosenthal wrote the historical survey from his larger study of the sub­ject. Ms. Gail Reizenstein and Mr. John B. Yellott, Jr., law clerks, helped Mr. Donald Hyde compile the two indexes. Ms. Mary Ann Glenn, Ms. Jane Otto, and Ms. Judy Femi worked long on the typing and proofing of the index and the history. Lastly, appreciation should be especially expressed to the Chief Counsel of the Commission, Mr. Harry E. Webb, Jr., the man who sponsored and made it a reality. 
iii 

Table of Contents 
Page 
List of Commissioners . _ Preface _. . ... .._._______ ii Historical Survey .______________ 1 
Alphabetical Index of Indian Claims Commission CasesThrough September 1, 1978 .__ 23 
Addendum ..... ._____________________________ 107 
Index of Indian Claims by Docket Number . .. 113 
Fiscal Year Totals of Dockets Completed and Awards ._____ 125 Preface to Map ... . .________ 127 Introduction .__ 127 Map Area Index . .. 131 Alphabetical Tribal Index _. . . .. ._______ 139 Citator, Court of Claims to Federal Reporter . . . . 141 
Map "Indian Land Areas Judicially Established" ---------------------...-pO::1et 

Historical Survey 

Indian Grievances, the Government, and the Court of Claims, 1831-1946 
The bases of the Indian claims against the Ameri­
can Government were rooted in what has been 
referred to as the "largest real estate transaction 
in history." As the Indian's possessions receded, his 
claim surfaced. This element of American history 
flowered in the period from the close of the Civil 
War to the First World War and the "wrongs com­
mitted, or at least initiated by our public servants in 
that period give rise to most of the claims that we 
are trying to redress today." 1 
Historical precedent and national policy called for the United States to acquire this land by the legal forum of treaty-making and legislation rather than the simpler method of conquest and confiscation. The separate Indian tribes were considered as sovereign nations during the treaty-making period and in 370 treaties they negotiated away nearly two billion acres of North America, leaving themselves 140 million acres at the end of that period in 1868. (The last treaty was made and ratified in 1868, but the process was not formally ended until 1871 , after which Congressional and Executive "agreements" continued the procedure.) 
Politically, morally, culturally, legally, and philosophically, America had all the tools and ration­alizations it needed to remove the human blocks to her manifest destiny. In his first annual message to Congress in 1817, President James Monroe said: "The earth was given to mankind to support the greatest numbers of which it is capable, and no tribe or people have a right to withhold from the wants of others more than is necessary for their own sup­port and comfort." The frontiersmen had sounded this theme for two centuries, and Monroe, in the tradition of Jefferson, was not remiss in sounding it again for the nineteenth century. The period of greatest westward expansion, 1815 to 1860, saw 260 treaties signed., Two hundred and thirty of all the treaties between 1789 and 1868 involved Indian lands, 76 called for removal and resettlement, and 
IFeti.x S Cohen, The l.egal Conscience (New Haven: Yale Uni ... ersity Press" 19(0) 
~65 
nearly 100 dealt with boundaries between Indian and white lands primarily. 2 These treaties and other Government agreements embodied 720 land ces­sions from 1784 to 1894. 
By the 1890's, the contest for America was over and its possession signed, sealed, and delivered. But, though the white man was contented with his record in these dealings, the Indian was not. One Western historian has noted that "it would be diffi­cult, indeed, to find a land cession made by the Indians entirely of their own volition."3 The Ameri­can right to buy always superseded the Indian right not to sell. The white man's superior power allowed this policy, and pro forma use of the treaty con­formed to his Anglo-Saxon tradition and concern for the law. For the Indian the legality of it all was of little comfort. 
It was this precise legalistic tradition that necessi­tated the treaty process, but at the same time har­bored the seeds of future redress for inequities in that procedure. Treaties are contracts, and for the land acquired monies and goods were paid or prom­ised. The consequences of this powerful European respect for property are still with us. Thus, the United States, through formal treaty or agreement with the Indian tribes, purchased 95 percent of its public domain for an alleged $800 million. 4 This figure and the treaties mitigate the myth of rude con­quest and dispossession. Jefferson observed two centuries ago that the lands of this country were not taken from the Indians by conquest as is 'so generally supposed. "I find in our historians and records, repeated proofs of purchase, which cover a considerable part of the lower country; and many more would doubtless be found on further search. 
The upper country, we know, has been acquired altogether by purchase made in the most unexcep­tional form."5 Thus the treaties were made and obligations incurred by the United States Govern­ment. The fact that these obligations were often not 
'federal Indian Lay, (New York: Association on American Indian Allairs. 1966). 163 
3Walter Hart Blumenthal. American Indian Dispossessed:' Fraud in Land Cessions forced upon the Tribes (Philadelphia: G S MacManus Co. 1955).43 4Cohen. L.egal Conscience, 69 
~Thomas Jefferson. "'Notes on the State of Virginia 1781··85" reprinted in Saul K 
Padover. The Complere Jefferson (New York: Duell Sloan & Pearce. 194~), 6~3 

1. 
'j 


wholly met did not negate the law of the land. What the white man chose to forget, the Indian chose to remember; and bided his time. When the fever of conquest subsided, that same legal conscience that necessitated the treaties was used to enforce them. 
The first important attempt of an Indian tribe to test the theory of the white law in the courts rather than its practice on the battlefield came in 1831. The Cherokee Nation had adopted the white man's cul­ture a generation earlier and had made impressive advances along the road to civilization by 1829. The argument that the hunter must naturally give way to the farmer could no longer be applied to these In­dians. But complex historical and political processes and larger issues in the growth ofa new nation over­whelmed the Indian cause and the five civilized tribes faced removal to the West. The Indians sought redress in the Supreme Court but lost on a jurisdic­tional ruling. The Cherokee were declared neither 
foreign nations nor states of the Union within the meaning of Article III, Section 2 of the Constitution and they could not sue, be sued, or intervene in any case where the original jurisdiction of the Supreme Court was involved.6 
In the mid-1850's, tribal relations with the Govern­ment centered on the 52 treaties negotiated from 1853 to 1857, but some tribes filed their claims with the new Court of Claims. None had come to judg­ment by 1863 when Congress passed an amenda­tory law to the Court's enabling act of 1855 which, among other things, expressly excluded the Indian from the new court. Section 9 of this statute de­claredthatjurisdiction ofthe Court ofClaims"shall not extend to or include any claim against the Government not pending in said court on Decem­ber 1, 1862, growing out of or dependent on any treaty stipulation entered into with foreign nations 
or with the Indian tribes." 7 Thus, the oversight that did not exclude the Indians in 1855 was cor­rected and the Court remained closed to the Indians until 1881, when it was first opened to an individual tribe by a speci~1 jurisdictional act of Congress. 
In 1871, the treaty-making process was formally ended and the fiction of the tribes' "independent nation" status was terminated, but with the proviso that nothing in that act "shall be construed to in­validate or impair the obligations of any treaty here­tofore lawfully made and ratified with any such 
flOrant Foreman, Indian RemOlal.' The Emigration of the fh'f Cid/iud Tribes of Indians (Norman: University of Oklahoma Press, 1932), 229·50. See Federal Indian Law. 34t. Joseph C Burke, "The Cherokee Cases: A Study in Law, Politics, and Morality," Stanford La. Rel/ew, Vol. XXI, No, 3 (February 1969),500·31, Edwin A. Miles. ,:~After John Marshall's Decision: Worceslt'f v, Georgia and the Nullification Crises, The Journal o/Southern History, Vol. 39 No 4 (November 1973).519..44 Cherokee ,,,,-ration,,, Georgia. 5 Pet, 1, 1831 
'Section 9, 12 Stat. 765 March 3, 1863 10 Stat 612, Feb. 24, 1855 
Indian nation or tribe. ,. 8 This provision kept the past alive for the Indian claimant and enabled him to persevere in his quest for judicial recognition of his treaty-based land claims" 
With determination, and with the aid of sympa­thetic white allies, the Indian made some legal advances. In the famous Standing Bear v. Crook trial of 1879, the United States District Court of Nebraska, for the first time, established Indians as persons under the terms of the Fourteenth Amend­ment. Out of this case also came an investigation of the South Dakota Poncas' (later of Nebraska) claims and a congressional recognition of the obvi­ous justice of these claims. In January 1881, a presidential commission of investigation expressed its conviction, from the Ponca case, that "it is of the utmost importance to white and red men alike that all Indians should have the opportunity of appealing to the courts for the protection and vindi­cation of their rights of person and property." 9 A door was opened. 
The year 1881 was a turning point in the long his­tory of Indian claims frustration. By a special act of March 1881 the tenacious Choctaws were granted access to the Court of Claims for resolution of their 50-year-old claims. I 0 In the years of Indian exclu­sion from this Court the Indians of the West had followed those of the East to military defeat and confinement. As the last of the hostilities and resis­tance faded, the legal forum was allowed to replace the military arena and the Choctaw precedent broadened this format. It was in this year that a prominent New York attorney, Charles O'Connor, publicly lauded the Court of Claims as the "first­born of a new judicial era." He saw the court as a new principle and as a "practical negative upon that vicious maxim" that the sovereign can do no wrong. "Henceforth our government repudiates the arro­
gant assumption, and consents to meet at the bar of enlightened justice every rightful claimant, how lowly soever his condition may be. "11 After 1881 this would include even the "lowly" Indians, but only by the process of a special jurisdictional act of Congress to open this Court to the petitioning tribes. 
The process of securing a jurisdictional act from Congress to grant access to the Court of Claims was an arduous one. From 1881 to 1890 the tribes filed 11 
'16 Stat. 566. March 3 1871 
'Thomas Henry Tibbles. The Ponca Chiefs An Aaollnt ofthe Trial ojStanding Bear (Lincoln: Universitl of Nebraska Press 1972) 134 
"21 Stat 504. Chapter 139. 'March 3 1881 
1117 Ct. CI. 3. "History, Jurisdiction, and Practice of the Coun of Claims of the United Stages"'" by William A Richardson 


claims and secured awards on two, but 73 contracts, representing 61 more claims, were approved or pending with the Secretary of Interior. In the years following, to World War I, 20 more claims were filed with the Court and 12 resulted in recoveries totaling $13 million. 12 
The decade following the beginning of World War I was an unprofitable one as far as Indian suc­cess in the Court was concerned, but in those years lay the promise of future victories. From 1914 to 1923 only eight claims cases were referred to the Court of Claims, three of which resulted in awards totaling over $1.5 million. But the Indian response to America's involvement in the War had been enthusi­astic. Thousands joined the service, though not sub­ject to the draft. This motivated a strong movement in Congress and the Executive for a general law to reward them with American citizenship; it was finally passed in 1924. The removal of this cloud over the Indian's legal status, combined with Con­gressional goodwill, resulted in an explosion of claims to redress old injustices. In the next 3 years, after passage of the necessary jurisdictional acts, almost as many claims cases were filed in the Court of Claims (37) as were filed in the 42 years before citizenship (39). But it was not the legal enactment of citizenship alone that led to the increase in In­dian claims. It was the increase in public awareness of Indian patriotism that heightened the willingness 
in Congress to pass the jurisdictional acts opening the Court to the Indians. In total, by 1946, almost 200 claims were filed with the Court of Claims; but only 29 received awards, while the bulk of the rest were dismissed on technicalities which led to action for revised jurisdictional acts. Obviously, if some­thing was to be done with these claims, a new proce­dure was necessary. 
The Evolution of the Indian Claims Com­mission, 192846 
The Court of Claims, narrowly circumscribed by the acts granting it jurisdiction, tried for 65 years to deal conclusively with Indian claims and failed. The Government, the Indians, and impartial re­searchers all deemed the machinery related to this process to be inadequate. The result of the almost unanimous dissatisfaction was the establishment of a special commission to handle exclusively Indian cases under a broad new jurisdiction and with the firmly expressed goal of finality. 
IIV.S • Congress. House" Committee on Interior and Insular Atlairs, An lrn:t"stigation 
of the Bureau of Indian Aj)airs. pursuant to H Res 698 81nd Cong 2nd sess . 
December 15.1952 H Rep!. 2503, 156}·71 

The evolution of the Indian Claims Commission 
Act of 1946 was a long process in the context of 
American history. The first influential person to 
take up this theme in the twentieth century was 
Francis E. Leupp, Commissioner of Indian Affairs 
from 1905 to 1908. In his book, The Indian and His 
Problem (1910), Leupp recommended "the creation 
of a special court, or the addition of a branch to the 
present United States Court of Claims, to be charged 
with the adjudication of Indian claims exclusively." 13 
In 1913, in hearings before a subcommittee of the 
House Committee on Indian Affairs, Assistant Com­
missioner of Indian Affairs Edgar B. Meritt came to 
the conclusion that an investigatory commission 
should be established to sort out the Indian claims 
and prepare reports upon which basis Congress 
could dispose of the cases for all time. 14 
In 1928, with the publication of The Problems of Indian Administration (the Meriam Report), the concept of an Indian Claims Commission received the endorsement that was to carry it into law some 18 years later. This work was done under the general direction of Lewis Meriam of the Institute for Government Research in Washington, D.C. at the request of the Secretary of the Interior, Hubert Work. The Report called for a "special commis­sion" to study the existing claims still without a jurisdictional act. It proposed that this commission should submit recommendations to the Secretary of Interior "so that those claims which are meri­torious may be submitted to Congress with a draft of a suitable bill authorizing their settlement before the Court of Claims. "15 
Congressional Indian Committees had, since 1924, expressed an interest in this concept. In response, the Institute for Government Research, in the fall of 1929, retained Nathan R. Margold, a New York attorney, to study Indian claims problems and to draft a bill for their solution. After a thorough study of the issues and people involved, Margold reported to the Senate Subcommittee on Indian Affairs in December 1930. He proposed that Congress create an Indian Claims Commission of six commissioners to hear and finally decide all claims within a 15 year period.,16 Nothing came of the Margold study but, also in 1930, Chairman of the House Committee on Indian Affairs, Scott Leavitt of Montana, had introduced a bill (H.R. 
13Francis E" Leupp, The Indian and His Problem (New York: Charles Scribner's Sons 1910). 194··6 
14V.S,. Congress. House. Subcommittee of the Committee on Indian Affairs, Hearings on Appropriations Bill of 1914, 64th Cong. 2nd ses> 1913.99 
uLewis Meriam. el at" The Problems oj'lnJiun Adminluralivn (Baltimore: 'The Johns Hopkins Pres>, 1928) 805-11 
16U.S . Congress. Senate. Subcommittee of Committee on Indian Affairs.. Hearings on lhe Suney ofCortditions oflndians in the CIS, par1::5 70th and itst Cong 13670-77 

7963) to create a United States Court of Indian Claims. This court was to consist of three judges, have a 5-year filing period for all claims founded upon the Constitution, laws of Congress, treaties, and contracts, and render final decisions within a to-year life span. Thus, by 1930, the resolution of the Indian claims was proposed under two forms of tribunal. 
In 1934and early 1935, theproponents ofan Indian court submitted two more bills to establish an Indian Claims Court. Both bills were ignored, largely be­cause they were not, by this time, considered practi­cal answers to the claims situation. In a report to the Senate Committee on Indian Affairs, Secretary of the Interior Harold Ickes argued against them and directed the Seantors' attention to a bill recently introduced in the House to create an Indian Claims Commission instead of a court, which he considered preferable. 
With the introduction, in March 1935, of H.R. 6655, an act to create an Indian Claims Commission, the legislative movement to expedite Indian claims shifted irreversibly from the consideration of a judicial to a commission format. Both Congress and the Secretary of Interior now felt that a commission rather than an adversary proceeding could better "cut through" the red tape of Government agencies charged with the preparation of Indian cases. An investigatory commission appeared to be a better vehicle for "claims involving history and anthro­pology as much as law." 17 This bill, and three simi­lar ones, aroused a good deal of debate throughout the 1930's, but no legislation resulted. 
The final phase of the quest for claims legislation began on August 1, 1940, with the introduction of 
S. 4234. Unlike all previous bills it gave the com­mission authority to make final determinations of the claims on matters of fact and law. Review on questions of law was allowed by certiorari to the Court of Claims. Its jurisdiction was to embrace all outstanding tribal claims of a legal, equitable, or moral nature presented within a 5 year limit. The commission had thus matured from a fact··finding advisory body to a self-contained agency able to conduct its own investigations, determine the facts, adjudicate the legal issues, and make a final deter­mination. Congress, of course, still had final review when it received the complete report on each case. 
This bill met many of the problems of Indian claims but it still did not grant the commission the power to deal finally with the claims in its own right. 
l1Vine Deloria. Jr (ed), Behind the Trail ofBroken Trealies (Ne,-" York: Delacorte 
Press. 1974),221 

The Interior Department then presented its own bill 
(S. 4349) to close this gap. Commissioner of Indian Affairs John Collier correctly sawfinality as the key to Government acceptance of any claims format. He also stressed this need in order to give' 'meaning" to the 1940 platform declarations of the two major parties, both of which called for final settlement. 18 
The intervention of World War II silenced most of the debate on Indian claims temporarily but in 1944 the final push for the establishment of a commission began. Reworked versions of the earlier bills were presented and the Congress showed a revived in­terest in dealing with this issue. 
The most extensive hearings of these bills to date were held in five sessions over a 4 month period in 1945. Representative Henry M. Jackson of Washing­ton, Chairman of the House Committee on Indian Affairs, was determined to act favorably upon H.R. 1198 or one similar in purpose. Chairman Jackson's perception of that purpose was clear: "We are being harassed constantly by various pieces of legisla­tion," he said, "and we plan to dispose of all those routine claims and let the Commission decide what the obligation is of this Government to the Indians ... and appropriate the money .... I think that is our congressional intent. "19 On this there was near unanimous agreement among the witnesses at the hearings. 
On October 25, 1945, Chairman Jackson intro­duced H.R. 4497, the embodiment of many of the ideas contained in the several bills since 1935. The bill's jurisdiction was to include moral claims based on "unconscionable consideration" and "fair and honorable dealings" as well as those over which the Court of Claims then had jurisdiction. In its report, the Committee on Indian Affairs stated that the bill was "primarily designed to right a continuing wrong to our Indian citizens for which no possible justifi­cation can be asserted." The report noted that In­dians were rewarded with citizenship for patriotism following World War I and that it was "only fitting" that this same quality was again rewarded by the removal of the "last serious discrimination with which they are burdened in their dealings with the federal Government." Hereafter, the Court of Claims would be open to Indians and end the need 
to accord special treatment to their claims. But it was thought advisable, concluded the report, to 
18Virgil ] .. Vogel, This Count') Was Ours, A Documentary History of the Amerkan Indian (New York: Harper & Row, 1972) 27fP7 
19U"S • Congress. House. Committee on Indian Affairs, Heari'ngs on H R, J198and H. 
R. /34/ to Create an Indian Claims Commission. 79th Congo 1st sess .• March 2. 3, 28. and June II, 14, 1945, 68 


establish the commission to deal with the backlog of cases accumulated over the 82 years Indians had been denied equal access to the courts. The bill easily passed the House and, after a conference and minor alterations, the Senate on August 2, 1946. 
There was yet the hurdle of presidential approval but little trouble was expected and none materi­alized. Secretary of Interior Julius A. Krug wrote that H.R. 4497 was "certainly the most important Indian legislation enacted in more than a decade," and that it would "strengthen our moral position in the eyes of many other minority peoples" in little nations abroad. His prepared statement for Presi­dent Truman read, in part, as follows: 
The bill makes perfectly clear what many men and women, here and abroad, have failed to recognize. that in our trans­actions with the Indian tribes we have at least since the Northwest Ordinance of 1787 set for ourselves the standard of fair and honorable dealings, pledging respect for all Indian property rights.. Instead ofconfiscating Indian lands, we have purchased from the tribes that once owned this continent more than 90 percent of our public domain, pay­ing them approximately 800 million dollars in the process. It would be a miracle if in the course of these dealings-the largest real estate transaction in history-we had not made some mistakes and occasionally failed to live up to the pre­cise terms of our treaties and agreements with some 200 tribes., But we stand ready to submit all such controversies to the judgment of impartial tIibunals, We stand ready to 
correct any mistakes we have made.,20 
The passage of the Indian Claims Commission Act capped 16 years of intensive campaigning for an idea almost half a century old. This struggle involved ardent friends of the Indian on one side, vigorous defenders of the Government on the other, and many sincere middlemen who tried to serve justice as they saw it. To the credit of Congress, the moral issues were openly faced and debated. This debate engen­dered much divisiveness but the substantial prob­lems were finally overcome or compromised and the moral issues recognized by the Act along with the purely legal and financial considerations. The final and just resolution of the tribal claims was a pro­
jected hope and, though the legislators planned that one decade would bring results rather than three, their ideal, in context, was not unrealistic. 
The Indian Claims Commission: The Form­alive Decade, 1947-1957 
The Indian Claims Commission, created on August 13, 1946, was finally constituted when its three appointed members were sworn in on April 10, 
10public Papers oj'the President of the U,r;led Scau.s, Harry S I'ruman. 1946 (Washington D C 196:).414 
1947. President Truman named as assistant Com­missioners Louis J. O'Marr, an ex-Attorney General of Wyoming and William M. Holt, a Nebraska lawyer. As Chief Commissioner he appointed Edgar 
E. Witt, a former Lieutenant Governor of Texas. Witt had been appointed chairman of two Mexican Claims Commissioners by President Roosevelt and the second had ended its work in 1947. 
The Commission began its first full fiscal year of 
operation in July 1947. It was authorized 23 em­
ployees but employed only 12 that first year. It had 
already adopted its rules of procedure and had sent 
notice to most Indian groups in June., By the end of 
the calendar year, 17 claims were filed for an aggre­
gate amount of $253 millionY 
In 1948 the Commissioners estimated that any­
where from 200 to 500 claims would be filed. 22 The 
cases came in slowly over most of the 5-year filing 
period and, with 200 in by early 1951, the Com­
missioners thought that 300 would be the total. Also, 
by this time, 25 cases had been decided. (Two claims 
won an award total of $3.5 million, nine were dis­
missed and 14 withdrawn). 
In the summer of 1951, there occurTed a dramatic change which destroyed the predictions made forthe size of the final claims docket. It appears now that many of the Indian attorneys held off on filing to await the outcome of the early decisions. Also, many tribes had difficulty securing legal representation. And, as always in these claims, the case work-up was tedious and time consuming. The result was that in the last weeks of the 5 year filing period the activity increased tremendously. As this rush de­veloped, congressional friends ofthe Indian made an attempt to extend the filing period for 1 year but failed. The flurry of claims filing intensified in the last month and a half of the filing period, which saw double the number filed in the 4;6 years before. With all the claims in, the total came to 370 petitions that were divided eventually into more than 600 dockets. 
The Commission was confronted with a massive job. Almost all the 176 known tribes or bands filed one or more claims on old grievances. Only 17 tribes (as of July 1951) were undecided as to their desire to file claims and several said they had none. 23 The Commission had some 600 claims before it, only 26 of which had been adjudicated by the end of 1951.
.' 
2lU ,s .. Congress. Sub,ommittee of the Committee on Appropriations. Hearings on Independent OJJices Appropriations Bills 1949··52 
"Ibid House for 19c19 
!JUS.. Congress. House. Pru\iding a One Yellr Extetrsion ofthe f'i~ e Year Limitation on the Time for Pre5t"nting Indian Claims to the Indian Claims Commission. 82nd Cong lSI sess Pt. 3. 1953 593-60 1 
'­

Primarily these claims, most of which were con­cerned with western lands, dealt with the under­valuation of tribal lands transferred to the United States in treaties of purchase. But many concerned the alleged failure of the Government to abide by treaty provisions and called for an historical ac­counting. It was estimated that the tribes spent one million dollars preparing their early cases for trial. 24 
The Commission was a new concept for the In­dians and it embodied unprecedented causes for legal action. The immediate difficulty was to dis­tinguish the role of a commission from that of a court. It will be recalled that the earliest legislation to enact a claims forum was in the form of a court but, after 19.35 the commission framework was settled upon. In spite of this titular designation, his­tory proved stronger than semantics. Since 1881 it was the Court of Claims that had handled all Indian tribal cases and it was to this body ofprecedent that the new Commission looked. These procedures and theories were thus largely adopted by the Commis­sion, in effect making it a court, a reality formally acknowledged early in the life of the Commission.25 
The Commission evolved a workable procedure to accomplish its task. The great majority of claims, being land cases, were heard in three stages: title, value-liability, and offsets. The title phase was often a difficult one for the Commission. Establishing the "definable territory the Indians occupied exclu­sively" was a most complex undertaking and re­quired the labor of experts in the field and in the archives. If and when the first stage was decided in favor ofthe tribe, then the trial proceeded to the next stage. At least 2 years or more were required for preparation. Valuation-liability proceedings were usually lengthy and required the expert testimony of many specialists and diligent research in a mass of governmental records. Many judgments on inclusion of pertinent information distilled from this vast amount of material had to be made along the way. With the liability. of the United States Government established, the last stage, that of determination of allowable offsets, took place before a final award could be made. These stages required two inter­
locutoryjudgments and a final judgment by the Com­mission. Each stage almost always received motions for rehearing (and appeal after 1961) and, the final jUdgment was appealable to the Court of Claims and 
u u.,s". Congress. Senate. Committee on Interior and Insular Affairs. Amending the 
~ot.janClaim'Commi"ionAetloaccomp.S 751.87Cong Istsess. May 1961.Rept 

uU"S". Congress. House. Subcommittee of the Committee on Appropriations, 
Hearings on Interior Department and Related Agencies Appropriations billIor /9.56. 
84th Cong., 1st sess • 1955.573-80 
to the Supreme Court through ~ writ of certiorari. The appeal process took from 8 months to .3 years as a matter of course. Also there were numerous miscellaneous motions for time extensions or the admission of new evidence. 
The apparent slow process of the Commission's early work and the probability of the job being a protracted one troubled Congress. Chief Commis­sioner Witt often explained that the nature of the litigation precluded quick resolutions. Justice Department representative Perry Morton concurred with Witt stating, "there is nothing as complex as these cases."26 Outside of Government, interested parties were also anxious about the Commission's progress. In late 1954, specialists with extensive experience in Indian-~Iaims work gathered at a symposium in Detroit to explore mutually the prob­lem of expert courtroom testimony and propose remedies for the difficulties that had arisen. All groups declared that they wanted quicker action. 
As mentioned above, the determination of the tribal boundaries, duration of tribal possession of the land, and the appraisal of its value called for the advice of expert witnesses. Without this material the job of the Commission would have been nearly impossible. But the massive, often technical input of the experts frequently served as much to complicate the litigatory procedure as to clarify it. Anthro­pologist Julian H. Steward of the University of Illinois noted that "virtually no evidence presented in these cases can properly be called 'primary evi­dence,' 'first hand knowledge,' or an 'eye witness account' " and "it is therefore ridiculous to pro­claim that the facts speak for themselves." The Commissioners learned this reality quite early and asked for more than the "facts" as they were. For their total consideration they asked for theories, interpretations, and the reasoned deductions that led the expert to the formulation of his final opinion. 
This type of evidence was presented and allowed because the expert witness, unlike the ordinary witness, could offer his opinion. In spite of the deficiencies of the process, attorney Donald C. Gormley, of one of the most prominent firms en­gaged in Indian law (Wilkinson, Boyden, Cragun & Barker, Law Offices, Washington, D.C.. ) felt that where expert opinion had been employed' 'there was no question but that the tasks of the Commission 
:tV.s., Congress. Senate. Subcommittee of the Committee on Appropriations. 
Hearings on H. R. 9390 for ,he Appropriations for Interior and Related Agencies for 
1957. 84th Cong..• 2nd sess., 1956.552··58. In 1846 the Attorney General of the United States wrote in his repon to the President: "There is nothing in the whole compass of our laws so hard to bring within precise definition or logical or scientific arrangement as the relation in which the Indian stands to the United States," 


and the counsel had been greatly aided, and the 
cause ofjustice forwarded. "21 
Another hotly contested issue (and agent ofdelay) 
of Indian claims was that of gratuitous offsets. The 
debate over the justice of offsetting gratuities did 
not end with the passage of the Commission Act in 
1946. Though the Act eliminated for offset purposes 
about one-fourth of the more than 50 categories of 
gratuities, the remaining ones brought a debate on 
every case where claimed. To be allowable as an 
offset the item claimed must have been a gratuitous 
expenditure made without obligation on the part of 
the Government to make it or the Indians to repay it. 
It also must have been of benefit to the tribe rather 
than to an individual. Under Section 2 of the Com­
mission Act the limitations with respect to allow­
able offsets had to be observed. Lastly, the Com­
mission was to determine if the nature of the claim 
and the whole course of dealing between tribe and 
Government warranted the offset. 
The gratuities issue was made a part of the life of 
the Commission by Section 2 of the Act, which 
allowed them as offsets. The Commission, though, 
allowed relatively lower percentages of offsets 
pleaded as the years passed. In a case decided in 
1957, only $400,000 was allowed of the $2 million 
pleaded by the Government. But e'ven the $400,000 
was eliminated on rehearing.28 Certainly the allow­
ance of offsets complicated the work of all parties 
involved in the claims, but their negative impact on 
the awards probably declined. 
The debate on renewal of the life of the Commis­sion began in 1955. In that year the Senate consid­ered a bill granting a 5-year extension, but it died. In 1956 the House passed a bill simply granting 5 more years to the Commission. This was debated and amended by the Senate but finally agreed upon in conference and, in 1956, a brief law was passed that continued the. Commission for 5 more years.29 
The question and problems in law that arose in the first decade of the Commission were equal in complexity to the procedural development. For this reason their parallel elaboration deserves separate consideration. 
Law and Precedent, 1947-1957 
The most persistent theme of the legislative his­tory of the Indian Claims Commission was that the 
U"Anthropology and Indian Claims Litigation: Papers presented at a Symposium held 
at Detroit in December 1954," Ethnohistory. VoL 2. No 4 (Fall 1955). 336 
"Kiowa. Comanche and Apache Iribes V US. 5 Ind 0, Comm 297(1957). Compare Quapaw Tribe v. US. lInd C1 Comm 644.128 Ct Cl 45 "70 Stat 624, July 24. 1956 
Indians should have "their day in court." But the 
forum created for this purpose was a commission. In 
establishing a temporary Commission of three men, 
Congress exercised its political function, fashioning 
new legal "causes of action" and acknowledging 
the possible liability of the United States. But the 
Commission was a court in fact and its method was 
adjudicatory. It functioned largely as did the Court 
of Claims but dealt only with Indian claims. Its ex­
panded grounds for Government liability gave the 
Indian a wider scope of claims presentation and the 
potential for greater success in award recovery. 
The Commission Act allowed any identifiable 
group of Indian claimants residing in the United 
States or Alaska to sue the Government for 
(1) claims in law or equity arising under the Consti­tution, laws, treaties of the United States, and Executive orders of the President; (2) all other claims in law or equity, including those sounding in tort, with respect to which the claimant would have been entitled to sue in a court of the United States if the United States was subject to suit; (3) claims which would result if the treaties, contracts, and agreements between the claimant and the United States were revised on the ground of fraud, duress, unconscionable consideration, mutual or unilateral mistake, whether oflaw or fact, or any other ground cognizable by a court of equity; (4) claims arising from the taking by the United States, whether as the result of a treaty of cession or otherwise, of lands owned or occupied by the claimant without the pay­ment for such lands ofcompensation agreed to by the claimant; and (5) claims based upon fair and honor­able dealings that are not recognized by any existing rule of law or equity.30 Parts (3) and (5) created several new causes of action, allowed the Commis­sion to "go behind" or treat the Indian treaties as if revised, and gave cognizance to the broad concept 
of moral claims. The reaction to these causes of action by the claimants on the one side and the Justice Department on the other, and the theoreti­cally neutral Commission and Court of Claims in the middle, formed the legal history ofthe Indian Claims Commission. 
As a highly specialized court, the Commission had some unique characteristics. The Commission sent, as required, a written explanation of its function to all potential claimants, as garnered from the list furnished by the B.LA. (Section 13a) and followed this up (Section 17) with a notice for claims presen­tation. Ultimately it received 370 petitions (a single 
"Section 2. 60 Stal 1049 Aug. 13 1946 

tribe often having several) that were eventually 
separated into 617 dockets. It also was authorized 
(Section 13b) its own Investigation Division to check 
all claims referTed to it, but this provision was rarely 
used or deemed necessary. The Commission's prin­
cipal office was in the District of Columbia but its 
members were free to travel for field hearings, onsite 
land inspections, and conferences whenever neces­
sary. All of its final decisions were subject to appeal 
by either party and the Commission itself could ask 
the Court of Claims for guidance on questions of 
law. Appeals might result in affirmation, reversal, 
remand for future proceedings or any combination 
of the three. Its final report to Congress on a claim 
ended its duty and forever barred' 'any further claim 
or demand against the United States arising out of 
the matter involved in the controversy. "31 
The Act of 1946 laid out the general framework for 
the prosecution of the claims. The tribes could 
secure representation of their choice, SUbject to the 
approval of the Secretary ofInterior. The Attorney 
General or his assistants were to represent the 
United States Government. The Indian Tribal 
Claims Branch of the General Accounting Office 
(G.A.O.) garnered the vital fiscal information and 
data needed by both sides and presented it in a de­
tailed report to all parties (the G.S.A. handled this 
job after February 27, 1965). If a trial, with appeals, led to a final money award, the only kind allowed the Commission, it was certified and reported to Congress as with the Court of Claims. All awards were automatically referred to the Treasury and the Bureau of the Budget and included in the next appropriation bill. (Separate appropriation was made unnecessary in 1978.) Final payment to the Indians was then deposited in the Treasury until Congress directed how it should be distributed among the various members of the tribes. 
The many tribal land cessions to the United States made up the main source of alleged wrongs that the Indian claimants sought to redress. They held that the United States acquired valuable land for unconscionably low prices in bargains struck between unequals. The typical case before the Com­mission was a claim for additional compensation over the amount originally granted in the "taking" or purchase of the land. Just over 80 percent of these transactions were by treaty and involved sbme com­pensation in the form of money, goods, services or a combination of the three. Ifthe Commission recog­nized Government liability for "grossly inadequate" 
"See the Act of 1946 Section 22(b), and the' 'General Rules ot'Procedure forthe Indian Claims Commission," F<deral R<gisler, Vol. 21, No. 216, Nov 6, 1956 These 
Procedures were revised in 1968. and printed by the Commi~sion 
8 consideration, the difference between that consider­ation and the fair market value of the land at the time of the treaty was awarded. 32 
The other type ofclaim that embodied most of the remaining non-land cases was that for a Government accounting. When the Marshall Court, in Cherokee Nation v. Georgia, accorded to tribes the status of domestic dependent nations it established a special relationship between the Federal Govern­ment and the Indians. The Government, as legal guardian for the tribes, became accountable for its management of tribal funds. The mismanagement, misfeasance, or mishandling of such funds consti­tuted a major source of Indian claims. Again, the General Services Administration (G.A.O. before 1965) provided the detailed accounting reports for all cases, whether to establish offsets for the land cases or to show fiscal irresponsibility in the accounting cases. In most of these cases a long and complex trial was necessary because, as historian Thomas LeDuc has pointed out, "the material facts are not only embarrassingly abundant but buried in a mass of irrelevant government records. "33 The attor·· ney's job was the disinterment of this material. 
It was only late in the second decade of the Com­mission's life that the claimants first pressed the accounting cases, the second most numerous type of claim. These cases required an accounting by the Government of any funds belonging to Indians, how they came into being, how they were expended, and what balances were held in the United States Treas­ury. Many of these records were quite old and the accounting involved thousands of transactions. The reports were made up by the G.S.A. The Govern­ment attorneys filed these reports with the Commis­sion and later answered the exceptions made by the claimants. A trial was then held to determine the degree, ifany, of fiduciary culpability on the part of the Government. 
The Government was permitted all defenses ex­cept statute of limitations or laches. The Justice Department might move for dismissal ofthe claim on summary judgment if the petition did not, in its opinion, state a claim upon which relief could be granted. Failing this, it stated its defense and moved to trial. 
In the first phase of a land claim the consulting 
3Z See the first Annual Report of the Indian Claims Commission, 1968, for a good summary of the work of the Commission 
:sa'Thomas LeDuc. "The Work of the Indian Claims Commission under the Act of 
1946." Pacific Hislorical R<vi<w, Vol. 26, NO.1 February 1957, 2. Another useful early survey of the Commission is that of Nancy O. Lurie, "The Indian Claims Com.. 
mission Act:' The Annals a/the American Academy ofPolitical and Social Science, 
Vol. 311, May 1957,56-70 
\ 
\, 


t'­
experts were likely to be historians and anthropolo­e 
gists. The Attorney General offered in evidence, beside the testimony of his experts, duly certified 
e 
information and papers from any department or agency of the Government. The Commission con­sidered this material in a very liberal and flexible manner. 
In the second, or valuation phase, the Govern­ment's and claimant's expert appraisers valued the land as of the treaty date, and the records were combed to determine the compensation received by the Indians as per agreement. 34 The Commission determined the fair market value, compared it with the compensation received to determine the Govern­ment's liability, and thus fixed the size of the award, if any. 

The final phase was that of offsets. These were, again, the gratuities given by the Government to the claiming tribe after the date the claim arose. The Attorney General, on receipt of the petition, re­quested an accounting by the General Services Administration. When computed, those gratuities allowed by law were deducted from the total award made in the valuation phase. 
Whenever the parties questioned the Commis­sion's conclusion regarding errors of fact or law, or where there was newly discovered evidence, a motion for rehearing might be filed. The parties could also appeal interlocutory decisions after the 1960 amendment to the Act (74 Stat. 829). Determin­ations of questions of law by the Court of Claims were reviewable by the Supreme Court by writ of certiorari. 
The Indian attorney's role in these cases was that of the proponent. No member of or delegate to Congress could practice before the Commission. Upon his employment, subject to approval of the Secretary of the Interior, he filed a certified copy of his contract with the Commission. He was to work with the tribe to formulate its claim and file the claims petition with the Commission. He secured expert witnesses when necessary. The Act provided the attorneys for the Indians with complete access to all Government records. 
The case did not end for the Indian attorney on final decision. He had then to make application be­fore the Commission for fees and reimbursable ex­penses. A detailed petition was filed with the Commission and served on the Attorney General. 
UNo compilation of' the Indian attorneys' expense for experts is available and little of the Government's. The one report of the Justice Department, though. may be a fair sample .. The Department spent $2.5 million from 1954 through 1962 for its expert witnesses. $176J1OO was spent in 1961 and $411.106 in the peak year of 1960 U.S.• Congress. House. Establishing a Re>olving Fund. 88th Cong .. 1st sess. July 1. 1963. Rept 492. to accomp H R 3306 
Payment from the claimant's award was usually approved, but on occasion the Commission deter­mined that a further hearing was necessary. At this hearing the attorney had to justify his fee and ex­penses in order to receive emolument, but valid challenges sometimes resulted in a reduced figure. In no case could the fee exceed 10 percent of the final award. 
The role of the Commission, as noted earlier, was much like that of a court of Indian claims. It molded its rules of procedure after a court and functioned largely as one. Technically it was a quasi-judicial branch of the legislature. In its lifetime there was little opposition to the litigatory interpretation of its function orto this rendering of the intent of Congress. This process continued for the life of the Commission. 
Within this procedural-legal context the Commis­sion refereed as the adversaries fell to battling over the interpretation of the complex issues raised by the new act. The great bulk of the early debate sur·· rounded the use of the legal defense ofresjudicata or previous decision, tribal existence as an entity capa­ble of bringing suit and the definition of "identifi­able group," the payment of interest, and, most im­portant, the establishment and compensability of Indian title. 
The first case of the Commission, that oftheWest­ern (Old Settlers) Cherokee, involved the legal prin·· ciple of res judicata. Res judicata makes a prior judgment binding in a second suit on the same cause of action between the same parties. The first judg­ment determines every issue in the second suit which was or could have been litigated in the initial suit. This principle is applied to ensure finality of judg­ment and to protect litigants from a multiplicity of suits. The Western Cherokees alleged that a mistake was made in the writing of their treaty and they claimed damages under the fair and honorable deal­ing clause. The Commission dismissed the claim on grounds of res judicata on motion by defandant. The Government had contended that the same facts and the same parties were involved in this case and a previous one in the Court of Claims (88 Ct. CI. 452, 1939). Since a large portion of the claims had been submitted to the Court of Claims prior to 1946 by earlier jurisdictional acts this precedent could have voided many of the Indian claims with the Commis­sion. The Court of Claims, however, reversed the Commis~ion. It held that the prior decision on the same sUbj~ct matter with the same parties did not bar 
the claim before the Commission because the claim was one of the new causes of action not justiciable in prior cases. That is, not only must there be the 

same facts and the same parties, but the same cause of action must be sued on for the defense of res judicata to bar the claim. Situations did occur later where res judicata was a proper defense, but only rarely, because the Commission Act had greater breadth than most of the prior special jurisdictional acts.35 
Another early decision of the Commission was that on which particular parties were allowed to bring suit. Some early pressure on behalf of indi­vidual claimants necessitated a definitive ruling and affirmation of Section 2 which states that the Com­mission shall hear and determine claims "on behalf of any tribe, band, or other identifiable group of American Indians residing within the territorial limits of the United States or Alaska." Acceptance of individual claims, it was stated numerous times, was against the intent of Congress and would have resulted in a docket too huge to manage. Thus the Commission held basically to the claims generated from the 176 groups recognized by the Indian Bureau and notified by the Commission in July 1947. But this ruling did not leave the Commission without prob­
lems with this Section. 
The expression "tribe" often has been a tricky one for the experts on Indian affairs. The term "nation" was most used in the seventeenth and eighteenth centuries and was a more appropriate designation than tribe because it referred more to a cultural than a political unity. Tribe came to be used generally after the Federal Government began exclu­sively handling Indian relations. Indians, said anthropologist A. L. Kroeber, were distinguished as they lived in a "tribal condition" or in a settled, ,.civilized condition." Tribes were treated as sovereign-state-tribes, for it made dealings more convenient and practical. "It was we Caucasians," said Kroeber, "who again and again rolled a number of related obscure bands or minute villages into the larger package of a 'tribe,' which we then puta­tively endowed with sovereign power and territorial 
ownership w.hich the native nationality had mostly never even c1aimed."36 
The claims were generally presented in the con­text of this tribal presupposition and were thus potentially as faulty as the notion of the tribe.37 In cases where tribes appeared not to have existed or failed to fit the white's political construct, they 
"Western Cherokee v. U.s, lind CI. Comm. 20 (1948), affd, 116 Ct a 665; Blackfeet v. US .• 2 Ind. a Comm 302 (1952); A,sifliboine Indian Tribe v.. US, 2 Ind. cr. Comm. 272 (1952) Federal Indian Law, 347; Chickasaw Nation v, U.s, 132 F. Supp. 199 (1955); Choctaw Na/ion v. US, 121 F. Supp 206(1954), cert den • 348 U.S. 863 and 135 F Supp.. 5~ (1955) 
"A. L. Kroeber, "Nature of the Land..Holding Group," E/hnohi"ory, Vol. 2, No.4, Fall J955. 304 
"Federal Indian Law, 455-63 
could be excluded from suit and thus penalized when, in fact, their land use and possession was a reality. Under these circumstances Congress recog­nized the category of "other identifiable group" in 1946 to include all groups that might suffer exclusion by semantics.38 
The most difficult factual problem facing the Com­mission was the question of what definable territory the Indians occupied exclusively. The Act allowed claims (Section 2 (4» arising from the "taking" of lands "owned or occupied" by claimants without proper compensation. The Commission, following the Supreme Court ruling in U.S. v. Santa Fe Pacific 
R.R. Co. (1941), held that e.xclusive occupancy had to be shown in a definable territory to establish aboriginal possession. Only when Indian title rested on exclusive tribal use and occupation from "time immemorial" was there a compensable interest. The Indians, thus, had a vested interest in the concept of tribe in the twentieth century as the whites did in the nineteenth and were obliged to prove its exist­
39
ence.Herein rested the role ofthe anthropologist. 
The job of the expert, at this point in a land case, was critical for the claimant. The Court of Claims held that use and occupancy were to be inferred from all the facts and circumstances in each case. If the Government demonstrated that more than one tribe used a particular area, exclusivity was denied and recovery on that area was usually disallowed. The claimant's task to demonstrate this exclusivity was most difficult. Occupancy itself was an arduous matter to prove conclusively. As it pertained to Indian title, exclusivity referred to land-resource use. Most Indians were organized in small, local­ized, autonomous units ranging in size from the single family to multi-family groups and each unit 
habitually exploited specific areas in their food quest. Rarely did a group's numbers exceed 500, with only a few reaching 2,000 or more. To qualify for occupancy, land use must have been consistent, either continual or seasonal, and the use must have been of vital importance in the economy of the people constituting the group.40 
The qualifying term, "exclusive," added immea­surably to the problems presented above. Not think­ing of land per se in terms of ownership but 
"See note 42, 314. See California Indians v us, lind CI. Comm 149 (1949), Dockets 31 and 37 
"U.S. v, San/a Fe Pacific R.R , 314 U S. 339 (1941). Marlon H. Fried. "The Myth ofTribe,' Na/ural Hi"or), Vol 84, No 4, April 1975, 12·20. See alsoSnake Indians v U.s" 125 Ct. CI. 241, 2S4(1953); and Ralph Barney. "The Indian Claims Commission-­the Conscience ofthe Nation in its Dealings with the Original Americans." Federal Bar Journal, Vol. 20. No 3. Summer 1960,238 
"'1. A Jones. "Problems. Opportunities. and Recommendations." ElhnohislOry. Vol. 2, No.. 4, Fall 1955,349..50 Also see Peter Farb, Man', Rise to Chiliza/ion as Shown by the Indians a/North America/rom Primeval Times 10 the Coming afthe Industriul State <New York: Avon Books. 1968), Chapters X and XII 
of bl cI 
eJ 
S{ 
S, 
IT: 
si 
b 
n 
h u tl 


of the resources on it, tribes claimed use of the land 
but allowed others access also. Exclusivity was ex­
clusively a white man's concept. But occupation and 
exclusivity were yet further complicated by the 
second qualifying term of "time immemorial." 
Selectively, this term had some meaning, but for 
many Indian groups it could not be applied. Many in 
situ by 1700 were not there in 1600 and others in situ 
by 1800 were not there in 1700.41 Obviously the 
Commission, even with the aid of the experts, could 
not secure definitive "facts" on these issues and 
had great latitude for seasoned judgment. Each case, 
usually ladened with an enormous mass of data, had 
to a degree to be considered separately. No doubt a 
trio of Solomons would have been hard put to render 
judgments satisfactory to all in these cases. Of 
course, if it was shown that the Government had 
recognized the rights of a tribe to a specific tract, 
then it was unnecessary for the tribe to prove its 
actual use and occupancy of that area. 
The recognition by the Government of Indian rights in the land, or "recognized title," presented the Commission, as it did the Court of Claims before it, with a major battle in claims litigation. It was Indian title that was established when continuous, exclusive occupation was demonstrated. This in jurisprudence was a question of fact. Recognized title was always a result of Congressional action, a question of law. This took the form of a treaty or Congressional agreement which specifically granted to a tribe permanent legal rights of occupancy in a sufficiently defined area. 
Generally, before the Act, only a claim based on recognized title could receive compensation. Out of the 370 petitions filed pursuant to the Act, most in­volved Indian title with no ratified treaty of recogni­tion. 42 In the Alcea case the Supreme Court appar­ently had decided that the taking of land held under Indian title was compensable under the Fifth Amendment. But in a subsequent per curiam deci­sion in the same case, the Court held that its earlier decision had rested on a statutory direction to pay and not on any obligation under the Constitution. Thus, it was still held that compensation in these cases was a political matter for Congress, not a legal one for the courts. In Tee-Hit-Ton Indians v. U.S., the Supreme Court ruled that their land was held merely by the grace of the sovereign, so that what­ever interest they had in it could be terminated with­out obligation to compensate under the Fifth 
"Ibid. J A Jones. 351 
"Donald C Gonnley "rhe Role oCthe Expert Witness." Ethnohlsrory. Vol. 2. No.4. 
Fall 1955. 12n Berlin B Chapman. Owe and Missouria. A Study of Indian Removal 
and che I.egal Aflermach (New York: Times Journal Publishing Company. (965). 25()'1 

Amendment. Only recognized title called for such compensation on taking, and the Tee-Hit-Ton had no such recognition. But the Court indicated that this decision might not affect the claims before the Com­mission. The Court of Claims, in the same year as the Tee-Hit-Ton case (1955), upheld a Commission decision that Indian title was compensable under Section 2 of the Commission Act. This was the land­mark Otoe and Missouria case. 43 
The case of Otoe and Missouria Tribe ofIndians 
v. U.S. was a leading one in Indian claims and a critical precedent for the Commission. In the Otoe case the Commission ruled that its Act provided a remedy for seizure of lands held under Indian title. It was a momentous trial involving hundreds of docu­ments and exhibits and 1,500 pages of testimony in hearings. And, it was a signal victory for the claimants. 
Another key issue of precedent for the Commis­sion was that of interest on the awards. In one of the Commission's earliest decisions, the Loyal Creek case, it ruled, and was affirmed by the Court of Claims, that interest not be allowed on the award. The Commission and the Court were guided not so much by the Creek's case as by the firm rulings of previous Supreme Court decisions. Soon after, in the Osage Nation case, the Commission confirmed and broadened the denial of interest in the Creek case under its provision for "fair and honorable deal­ings." Interest was also denied in the Osage case which was tried under the provision for "uncons­cionable consideration." Relying on the Creek case, the Court of Claims affirmed the Commission and held that no "taking" of the Osage's property oc­curred in the constitutional sense and hence no interest was allowable. 44 
Behind the precedent, and the most compelling reason for it, as seen in the Alcea case, was what has been called "judicial fiscal responsibility." In­terest is due only in cases of a Fifth Amendment "taking," a very small portion of the claims. If allowed under other forms of taking, interest alone could have mounted into billions of dollars. This at least was the argument used by the Solicitor General to the Supreme Court in the Alcea appeal. The award of $15 million in interest on a $3 million settlement seemed to bear him out and the Court reversed it­self. 45 Justice Department officials agreed with this 
43For a concise survey of this issue see the Hanard Law Re~·iew. Vol. 69, 1955. 147··5l Oroe and Missouriu T"bes ofIndians v. U. 5.• 131 Ct CI 593 .. 1955 <ert den. 350 U.s 818 (1955) U.s v. Tillamooks. 329 U.S. 40. 1946 
"I.oyal Creek Indians v U.5 .. 97 F Supp. 426 (Ct CI.) <err den .• 342 US. 813 (1951) Osage Nation v Us. 97 F. Supp 381 (Ct CL).cerr den 342 US 896(1951) 
4$See note 33 The Thomas LeDuc article presents a lengthy discussion on this case 
11 




"financially judicious" stand and thus the Commis­sion and the Court of Claims adhered to the earlier Supreme Court ruling that "Congress, not this Court or other federal courts, is the custodian of the national purse. "46 
The Commission, as might be expected of any such adjudicatory body that was engaged in resolv­ing ancient and fiercely partisan issues, faced many challenges. Chief Commissioner Witt often tried to convey the complexity of his office. Speaking to the House Appropriations Committee toward the end of the Commission's first decade, he attempted to pin­point the higher purpose of his agency. "We have tried to keep in mind the interests of the taxpayers but also what is right for the Indians," and "above all be fair. " The Indians may have been conquerors themselves but it was a fact 
that the Christian spirit and the human spirit actuate our type of people, requiring us to do justice towards these people, and not just undertake to say that 'to the victor belongs the spoils,' and 'get hither' to the vanquished; that we owed them a moral duty of some compensation for tak­ing away from them the lands where we found them, fr'om which they were then making their livelihood.47 
The Court of Claims also saw the Commission as a positive agent of good. In the Otae and Missal/ria opinion the Court wrote of the Commission Act: 
The Indian Claims Commission Act is both remedial legisla­tion and special legislation It broadens the Government's consent to suit and as such is in derogation of its sovereign­ty. It confers special privileges upon the Indian claimant apart from the rest of the community, and to some extent is in derogation of the common law. This was, we think, be­cause of the peculiar nature of the dealings between the Government and Indians from very early times. On the other hand, it remedies defects in the common law and in pre-existing statutory law as those laws affected Indians, and it was designed to correct certain evils of long standing and well known to Congress. Fortunately, under these cir­cumstances, rules of interpretation and construction are subordinate to the principle that the object of all construc­tion and interpretation is the just and reasonable operation of the particular statute, and accordingly it should be possi­ble to construe the statute liberally to affect its remedial 
purpose and intent, and strictly to limit undue abrogation of fundamental rights or to prevent undue extension of extraordinary remedies .48 
The Commission, the courts, the attorneys, and all ~heothers involved in these claims did their duty as they saw it from 1947 to 1957. The Commission assembled a formidable docket soon after it was 
"U.S v .Standard Oil Co. 322 u.s 301, 314 (1947) 
41U.s .• Congress, House, Subcommittee of the Committee on Appropriations. Hear,· ings on Appropriations for Interior Department and Related Agencies for /9.56 84th Cong .• 1st sess , 1955.578··80 
"Otoe and MiHouria Tribe of Indian, v US 131 Ct CI602 (1955) 
12 
constituted. Under its rules of procedure the advo·· cates of both sides vigorously attacked the moun­tainous legal and material problems presented by the 151 year claim backlog. The Court of Claims strove to add its wisdom, experience, and guidance to this difficult process. The Commission faced and re­solved many issues and saw new ones created in this first decade. Precedent directed much of its action, but a growing experience with the claims, more familiarity with the Act's provisions and prece­dential rulings on them, and the expanding life of the Commission brought some changes in the positions of all parties involved. First of all, of course, the life ofthe Commission, made unrealistically short by the Act of 1946, had to be extended. 
The Second Decade; Renewal and Reform, 
1957-1967 
The enabling act of the Commission granted it a 10-year life span and did not provide for extension on the contingency that it might not complete its work. This specific limitation was unavoidable at the time to gain enactment. The Act also complied with the legal principle that restricted a too-liberal grant of power and life to "quasi-judicial" agencies. Therefore Congress extended the life of the Commis­sion in 1956, and again in 1961,1967, 1972, and 1976 because the job was still unfinished. The extension act of 1967 increased the number of Commissioners from three to five, and firmed up the procedures. The fact was that the time span of 20 years (or even 32 as it developed) was not an exorbitant one to re­solve the immense and complex backlog of work involved in over 600 claims covering 150 years. The 
case exhumation and presentation, and the defense in the courtroom context was inherently a lengthy procedure. The Commission could and did tighten its own procedures where lax; but it had to function within the limits set by Congress in its Act, the precedents prescribed by its adversary forum, and the always difficult legal issues of Indian law. 
Through the late 1950's and into the 1960's the Commission persisted in its work. Its staffnumbered 14 and operated on a budget of $132,000 by 1957. 49 In its first decade the Commission had completed 80 cases and awarded $17.1 million on the 15 claims held to be valid. By the end of 1959, the Commission had dismissed 30 more claims, accorded some atten­tion to over half of the remaining dockets, had a 
~9U ,s", Congress, Senate. Subcommittee of the Comm~ttee on Appropriations '"Hear,. ;ng.s on H, R. 5189 making Appropriations for Intenor and Related Agenoes for 1958, 85th Cong ,1st sess, 1957, 193-·98 
\! 



)­
t­
e e s 
S 
stable budget for 2 years in a row, and declared that the staff was adequate. 
From mid-1959 into 1961 the work of the Commis­sion slowed due to personnel changes. In the summer of 1959 Commissioner Louis J. O'Marr resigned and Senator Arthur V. Watkins was ap­pointed to replace him. The following year Chief Commissioner Witt resigned, and T. Harold Scott, an attorney from Boulder, Colorado, who had worked for the Federal Trade Commission, took his seat on the Commission. Watkins then was ap­pointed Chief Commissioner. Watkins had been elected to the Senate from Utah in 1946 and 1952and was a member of the Subcommittee on Indian Affairs for that period, being its chairman during his last 4 years in office. 
This "period of transition," as Watkins later re­ferred to it, during which the two new Commis­sioners acclimated themselves, seemed to slow the progress of claims disposition. 50 The increase of work from that of the early and mid-1950's to the completion of 14 dockets per year from 19.57 through 1959, with a peak of 20 in 1960, fell off to 10 in 1961 and only six in 1962. It did not surpass 20 again until 1965.51 But this transition effected a striking change in the management and production of the Com­mission. 
After 1960 the Commission lost little time in initiating changes necessary to increase its output. The Commissioners knew well the feelings of Congress toward their Commission, and its concern about the seemingly slow progress.52 Chief Com­missioner Watkins had observed when first ap­pointed that the Government and Indian lawyers set the hearings by mutual agreement and then notified the Commission. He felt that this leisurely proce­dure was untenable and planned a regular calendar controlled by the Commission. In September 1960 the Commission called the first calendar conference. The participants were told that "justice delayed is oftenjustice denied" and informed that, to end much of the delay, a continuous 3-·year schedule of hear­ings would be followed. By this calendar, the Com­mission would hear an average of 30 claims per year and limit continuances to extreme emergencies. In 
addition to tightening the trial schedule, the Com­mission urged all parties to try to reach compromise 
UU,S .• Congress. Senate" Subcommittee of the Committee on Appropriations. Hear·· ings on H R. 6345 for Appropriations for Interior and Related Agencies /0,-1962, 87th Cong . 1st sess , 1%1,485-% 
~l AU figures of final settlements come from the Annual R~pvrt of the Indian Claims 
Commission 

uU,S •Congress. House, Subcommittee on Indian Affairs aCthe Committee on Interior and Insular Affairs. Hearings on H R. 2536 and Related Bills to Terminate the Indian Claims Commission and for other purposes, 90th Cong", 1st sess" March 1967,64 
settlements. The Commission initiated a procedure 
to better inform the Indians of the proposed settle­
ment and to insure their understanding and approval. 
Previously the Commission had no way of knowing 
to what extent the tribes were involved in the com­
promise settlements. The Commission firmly estab­
lished the "Omaha Rule" to obviate future recrimin­
ations in cases of compromise settlement.53 
The Commission entered the final year of its sec­
ond 5-year extension with a staff, in 1961, 17 strong 
and with a budget ofover $205,000. As of 1960, some 
125 cases had been disposed of and $42 million 
awarded. This represented a small fraction of the 
billions in payment forseen by some" These low 
annual award totals began to rise rapidly, though, 
after 1960. The cumulative total to 1959 of $20 mil­
lion more than doubled in 1960 and this figure quin­
tupled by 1966. Nineteen sixty-one was a low point 
in case-disposal over the previous 5 years but the 
award total was five times that of 19.59. The new trial 
calendar was rigorously enforced. Of the 104 cases 
set for 1960,86 were heard and only 18 received con­
tinuances for good cause.54 Five cases, already 
processed by 1960, matured to awards totaling $15 
million. But the Commission still had the bulk of its 
work ahead of it: 471 of the .596 dockets still re­
mained. An Administration bill calling for another 
extension was submitted to Congress in 1961. 
Congressional consideration of the bill of exten­sion for the Commission mostly took place in May 1961. It was a short, unheated debate and it appeared that 14 years of operation had established the Com­mission's legitimacy, at least among most of the members of the Indian committees. All the parties involved concurred that the original time period was too short for the unexpected work load the Com­mission received and they agreed that another exten­sion was necessary to give the claimants their "day in court. "55 The bills submitted to the Indian com· mittees requested a 5-year extension, expansion of the Claims Commission membership from three to five, and the authorization of the use of hearing examiners to accelerate the work.56 The consensus 
)3 U.S" Congress. Senate. Subcommittee on Indian Atl'airs of'the Committee on Interior and Insular Affairs, Hearings on S. 307. A Bill to Amend thl! Indian Claims Commission Act of 1946 as Amended, 90th Cong, 1st sess, February 1967,20 Omaha Tribe of Nebra,ka v, US. Dkt. 225-A, 8 Ind C1 Comm 392 1960 
~·U ,S" Congress, Senate, Subcommittee of'the Committee on Appropriations, Hear" 
ings on H R 10802 for Appropriation' for Interior and Related Agencies for 1963, 
87th Cong, 2nd sess. 1962, 773..88 
"Ibid,S, Rept. 208, and see US, Senate, Congressional Record, 87th Cong" 1st sess, Feb, 2, 1961. Vol 107. PI 2, 1618·,19 
Sl U, S, Congress, Senate, Committee on Interior and Insular Affairs Amending the Indian Claims Commission Act. 87th Cong,. 1st sess,. Ma; 9, 1961 Rept.. 208 to accomp. 5 75 L Compare Senate Rept. 208 to House Rep! 2719 on H. R. 5566 of the 84th Cong, , 2nd sess, July 16. 1956 for similar rejection of hearing examiners Also see U,S." Congress, House" Committee on Interior and Insular Affairs, Amendin~ the Indian Claims Commission Act. 87th Cong ,1st sess , May 23 1%1, Rept. 4.4 to Accamp" H R 4109, and U ,5 , Senate, Congressional Record 84th Cong ,1st sess 
1955, Vol. 101, PI 9, 11019 
13 


that emerged was that the growing experience of the Commission, its better accomodations, and the new trial calendar offered real hope for completion by 1967. The problem ofgiving the Indian his due had to be balanced somehow with giving him his walking papers, that is, ending government supervision" And, what was accomplished had to be done with finality, for the spector of the old jurisdictional acts haunted the Commission's work as it had all earlier efforts at claims settlement. A Senate Committee report echoed two generations of claims rhetoric when it recognized these facts and concluded: 
It cannot be stressed too strongly that the Claims Commis­sion Act was passed by Congress to give the Indians their day in court to present their claims of every kind. shape and variety.. Until all these claims are heard and settled, we may expect the Indians to resist any effort to terminate federal supervision and control over them 57 
The Commission extension act of June 1961, like that of 1956 simply provided a five-year extension of the Commission.58 The other suggested amend­ments could not be agreed upon and were dropped. It was in 1967 that Congress would radically alter and try more vigorously to force the Commission to real­ize its goal of extinguishing itself and its claims docket. Before that, the Commission disposed of 106 more cases and awarded another $170 million. 
The early 1960's also saw another key change in theclaimsprocedure, that oftheestablishment ofthe Revolving Fund for expert assistance loans. This Fund was necessitated by the rulings in the Crow and Northern Paiute cases of 1961. 59 Prior to these cases expert witnesses were sometimes employed by the Indians on a contingent fee basis. The practice had been allowed as in other courts, but some feared that the testimony might be weighted in the light of the financial interest of the witness in the outcome of the case. Even when the attorneys themselves paid the experts, the fact of the lawyer's own contingent contract disturbed some observers. The Commis­sion recommended that Congress make funds avail­able for this expense, which many an impecunious tribe could not bear. 60 A bill introduced by Repre­sentative James A. Haley of Florida became law in late 1963. This new law, not funded until July 1964, 
provided for a $900,000 fund for interest-bearing loans to be made available to only those tribes with·­
"Ibid.. S Rept 208. 
"75 Stat 92. June 16. 1961 

"Crow Indian< v. U5 .. Ind. CI Comm.. Docket 54. May 29. 1961; and Northern Paiute v u..s. Ind.. CI Comm. Docket 87, Jul; 3 1961 
IOU,S". Congress, House. Committee on Interior and Insular Affairs. Establishing A R~voltling FundFrom Which the Secretary ofInterior Mo) Make Loans to Fi"nance lhe Procurement ofExpert Assistance by Indian Tribes in Cases Before the Indian Claims Commission 88th Cong 1st sess, July I. 1963 Rept 492 to accomp H R 3306 
out other funds to employ expert witnesses. Repay­ tt  
ment was to be out of awards or to be declared non­ o  
repayable at the discretion of the Secretary of In­ 
terior in cases of dismissal. This fund was fully sub­ a  
scribed by July 1966 with half again its amount in  h  
applications pending. With some 30 tribes having  a  
sought loans, Congress doubled the fund total in 1966.61  n ti  
The second decade of the Commission was a busy  h  
time. The number of case-disposals, after the  o  
"transition period" and a low point of 1962, was  d  
almost tripled in 1963. The number of major inter­ r  
locutory decisions doubled in the same period. 62  !!  
These figures are meant only to relate to the Com­ t  
mission's overall progress toward extinguishing its  (  
total docket and not as an accurate measure, by com­ (  
parison, of yearly progress. The 3-year period from  t  
1964 to 1966 saw more awards (48) than in the 17  t  
years previous (45). The $111 million paid out in  
those 3 years was also greater than the total to 1963.  
At the same time, the number of dismissals was  
lower than any previous 3-year period.63 In 1966 the  
Commission had heard every case the Indians had  
readied and said it had the capacity for up to 50 more  
if the attorneys were prepared.  
With the need for an extension agreed upon by all  
parties, the debate focused on three issues: the  
length ofthe extension period, the rigidity ofthe new  
trial calendar, and the expansion of the Commission  
membership.64 The debate of 1967 occassioned a  
thorough revival of all the fundamental issues of the  
Commission's creation and an opportunity to ac­ 
quaint many in public and private life with its very  
existence.  
The first issue, that of time, was easily resolved.  
The idea of only a 2-year extension was first con­ 
sidered merely as an emergency measure and re­ 
jected in the light ofthe amount ofwork that remained  
to the Commission. Also, the threat of so short a  
tenure, a Commission report warned, would cause  
an "immediate exodus ofour ablest stafflawyers."65  
Another 5-year extension period was a foregone con­ 
clusion but both Watkins and the Indian Law Com­ 
mittee ofthe Federal Bar Association felt that a 7-year period would be more realistic. 66 By 1967; though;  
;:h~S~~~ i~~d ~~~r:;.~~;d ~U:;:1ili~~4inS;~h 19. 1966; and P L 9337. May 24.  
82U"S,. Congress. Senate. Subcommittee of the Committee on Appropriations. Hear.. ings on Appropriations for Interior and Related Agencies for /964. 88th Cong, , 1st sess. 1963. 1217..23  
83 An analysis of the summary chart giving a breakdown of cases by year from 1947 in tlte Annual Report of the Indian Claims Commission reveals these facts  
1I4 U.S" Congress. Senate, Subcommittee on Indian Affairs. Terminoling the Ex;.slenct'  
of the lndian Claims Commission and for other purpose,s. 89th Cong '. 2nd sess Sept 6, 1966. Rept 1587 to accomp S. 3068  
nSee note 52, 8  
"See note 53. 38  

.__~ ..
l__ 

y­
n­n­I 
in 19 al 
;y 
I 
IS 
['­
l2 
I·· 
S 
n 
7 
n 
the 5 year figure had become institutionalized. The other two issues were not so easily disposed of. 
Congress thought that the statutory imposition of a firm trial calendar was the most expeditious way to hasten the claims cases to final resolution. A House and a Senate bill called for a 5-year extension and a new section (27) establishing this calendar. This sec­tion provided for a trial date for all pending claims no later than January 1, 1970. Ifa claimant was "unable or unwilling" to proceed, the Commission was to dismiss with prejudice and thus preclude reinstate­ment. It provided for one 6·month extension for good cause and a stay on this if a compromise was in the process of negotiation. By these measures the Congress expressed its intent to end the life of the Commission in 1972 and to require assurances from the Commission that all claims would be disposed by that date. 
The last issue was that of increasing the number of Commissioners, which was yet another attempt to hasten the end. The lawmakers hoped that an in­crease in personnel, along with the change in the Act, would bring progress. It was reasoned that more Commissioners and a larger staff would result in more work being done. 
The bill that finally became law on April 10, 1967, was a compromise agreement. 67 It renewed the Commission for 5 more years and expanded it to five members; the President would designate a "chair­man." The seated Commissioners were to continue in office only until June 30, 1968, unless reappointed by the President and confirmed by the Senate prior to that date. The new law established a firm trial calendar and targeted, with exceptions, 1970 as the final year for the trial of all pending claims. 
In the period under discussion two main legal problems beset the Commission, and both affected its effort to expedite the workload. One was the con­fusion over Clause .3 of Section 2 of the Act. This clause, among other things, allowed claims that would result if dealings between the Indians and the United States were revised on the ground of "un­conscionable consideration." In one of the Sioux cases, decided in 1956 (146 Fed. Supp. 229), the Court of Claims ruled that unconscionable consider­ation was that which was "so much less than the actual value of the property sold that the disparity shocks the conscience." The Court acknowledged that no exact formula existed to measure the dispar­ity between payment and value and used "very gross" as its guide until 1961. 
"81 Stat 11 April 10 1%7 
The "very gross" cases were easy for the Com­
mission to handle, but when payment approached 50 
percent of the value more precision was required. In 
the Miami Tribe case the Court concurred with the 
Commission that payment of less than half the true 
value was unconscionable. Then the problems be­
gan. When the Commission denied liability of the 
Government, that is when the compensation was 
more than half the true value, the Court consistently 
reversed it by finding a smaller figure for the pay~ 
ment or a larger value for the land or claimed the 
value figure ruled on by the Commission to be a bare 
minimum. 
A missing element that slowed the work of the Commission was the lack of compromise settlements that normally dispose of most private litigation. The original Act allowed for the non..litigatory settlement of claims by the parties with the approval of the Commission. The claimants had long been allowed this right under the jurisdictional acts with approval of the Secretary of Interior. In the political arena, the Republican platform of 1956 had urged "the prompt adjudication or settlement of pending Indian claims," and the Indian claims plank of the Demo­cratic platform of 1960 insisted that the claims be "settled promptly whether by negotiation or other means, in the best interests of both parties."68 But the Commission was given no opportunity to ap­prove a compromise settlement until the claims attorneys advanced their strongest cases first and pushed for the maximum award. Also, it was long­standing policy of the Justice Department not to make settlement offers but to await them. 
It was only in 1960 that the Justice Department inaugurated a policy of encouraging settlement. One-halfthe cases which resulted in an award in 1960 were disposed by compromise settlement and 32 of the 51 from 1961 to 196.5. Watkins was encouraged by the efficacy of this procedure.69 He related that government and Indian attorneys advised him that possibly over half of the remaining cases would be settled, and he saw a chance of ending the Commis­sion's work "within a reasonable length oftime."70 Out of the 94 final awards by 1966 for a total of $194 million, settlement was negotiated in 38 for $87 million. Thirty other compromise settlements had been reached on secondary considerations such as offsets. 71 But, though settlements affected some 
I!IllVirgil Vogel (ed,), Thh Country was Ours;' A Documentar;. Hi~tory aj'the American Indian (New York: Harper & Row. 1972), 270-71 
69See note 53, chart on 47 
10U.s. Congress. Senate, Subcommittee of the Committee on Appropriations Hear·· ings on H, R. 6767 fur Appropriations for Interior Department for 1966, 89th Cong 
1st sess. 1966 631-35 
"See note 53. 74 
15 

savings in time and expenses, the benefits, as later became apparent, proved to be limited because most settlements were reached only after substantial ad­judicative work had already been done. i2 
The placing of blame for delay in these cases was as complex as everything else connected with them. Watkins defended his and the Commission's record as laudable and refused to be singled out for censure. Justice, possibly beleagured with its 17 lawyers and 12 clerks arTayed against the formidable legal force of the claimants, also defended its past. And, the Indians' attorneys were proud of their defense of the hapless tribes against a powerful Government. But, it can be safely asserted that most of the delay was caused by other factors such as the original enor­mous workload, the lack of sufficient personnel, the use of the adversary conception of the Commission, the mass of data involved and generated, the appel­late processes, and the complex interaction of all these elements. 
Using the word in its broadest sense, the "trials" oflndian claims settlement were many. It had com­pleted only ]2 percent of its caseload by ]9.57. By 1960 some 490 cases still remained on the docket. But, after 1960, the reform program dramatically boosted the performance of the Commission, doub­ling its annual output. The award total in 1960 stood at $42 million and at $226 million in ]967. The Com­mission could not, though, speed its work to allow it to complete its task by ]967 and the dissatisfac­tion of the Congress grew concomitantly with the length of the life of the Commission. All the parties to the Commission's creation and function contri­buted to its seemingly slow progress, but the prime agents of delay were the wording of the Act of 1946 and the nature of the cases themselves. 
Expansion, Reorganization, and Final Renewal, 1967-1978 
With the renewal act of 1967, Congress forcibly declared its intent to finalize the Indian claims and end the Commission. To accomplish this goal it ex­panded the Commission, guaranteed it a fresh change of personnel, and more rigidly directed its work schedule. Nevertheless new problems arose to complicate the Commission's docket and frustrate all the parties involved. However, the Commission did indeed perform in an impressive fashion, ac­complishing in .5 years 63 percent of the work total compiled in its 20 years of life. Congress was so 
12Annual Report of the Indian Claims Commission. 1973. 2 
]6 
struck that in 1972 it agreed that another renewal was a necessity but decreed it to be the last and further tightened the procedural strictures. The Commis­sion, though, did not complete its task, but left a still active docket as a legacy to the courts. 
The enlargement of the Commission, and its turn­over of membership, dominated its activities for over 2 years after the renewal of April ]967. Chief Commissioner Watkins retired in October 1967, 9 months before the date set for new appointments or reappointment. This left Commissioners William Holt and T. Harold Scott without a Chairman and the Commission without the necessary three members for a quorum. Reorganization, it began to appear, took time as well as legislation. Three new Commis·· sioners were appointed in December 1967, and the year ]968 opened with the full complement of five Commissioners as required by the extension act of 1967. The President designated no chairman until March. One year of the third 5-year renewal thus 
passed in expansion and reorganization, that is, one­fifth of the period that Congress granted to the Com­mission to wind up its work. About 40 percent ofthe task was completed in the previous 20 years: the remaining 60 percent was targeted for extinction in the next five. By early 1968 the chances for this seemed as remote as they were in the 1946 projec­tion. 
Nevertheless, the congressional mandate for "new blood" had been fulfilled-three-fifths of the expanded Commission was freshly appointed by 1968. These positions were filed by John T. Vance, Richard W. Yarborough, and Jerome K. Kuykendall. Vance had been an attorney in Montana and was on the faculty of the law school at the University of North Dakota when appointed to the Commission. Yarborough had practiced law in Texas before be­coming a legislative assistant to his father, Senator Ralph W. Yarborough, in 1958. Kuykendall was an attorney from Washington State. There he practiced law and served in the State Goverment. From 19.53 to 1961 he served as Chairman of the Federal Power Commission but returned to private practice in Washington, D.C. until appointed to the Commis­sion. i3 It was January 1968 before the Commission began operating with its full complement and, in March, Commissioner Vance was appointed Chair·· man. Three months hence, the unrenewed terms of 
Commissioners Holt and Scott expired leaving the three newcomers with a bare quorum. 
13U.S.• Congress, Senate, Committee on Interior and Insular Aflairs. Hearing on the Nomination ofJohn 1" Vance, Richard W, Yarborough. and Jerome K. Ku~kendall 10 he Commissioners afthe Indian Claims Commission. Wth Cong" 1st sess Dec, 14 1967 
11 
b 
P ( 
P 
1 
c e 
l' 
a 
r 


as er 
IS-
ill 
n­
or ef 
)r 
r 
Ie 
"S 
r, ;.. 
e 
If il 
s 
It was almost a year before the Commission re­
turned permanently to full strength. Margaret Pierce 
became a fourth Commissioner in October 1968. 
Pierce spent most ofher legal career with the Federal 
Government and was the Law Clerk and Court Re­
porter of Decisions for the Court of Claims from 
1948 until her Commission appointment. A five and 
one-half month "recess'appointment" was given to 
ex-Governor of Maryland Theodore R. McKeldin in 
November 1968. Then, in May 1969, the President 
appointed Brantley Blue the fifth permanent Com­
mission member. Blue had practiced law in Kings­
port, Tennessee, and had been a city judge there 
before his appointment. He was, having Lumbee 
ancestors, the first Indian member of the Commis­
sion.74 Jerome Kuykendall, a Republican, was soon 
after, in June 1969, appointed Chairman in place of 
Democrat John Vance by the new administration. 
This last alteration rounded out the Commission's 
composition, which remained in effect until the de­
mise of the Commission on September 30, 1978. 
The new Commissioners were strongly encour­aged by Congress to complete their work. The Chair­man ofthe Senate Committee on Interior and Insular Affairs, anxious that the nominees get the "mood" ofCongress, told them that the "job must be finished by 1972 or there is going to be trouble.. " He offered the aid of his committee to help in any way possible but warned that no further extensions would be con­sidered. 
The "new Commission," in the midst ofthe sweep·· ing personnel changes, reorganized some aspects of its procedure and got "the backlog moved along." It removed, for the fourth time, to larger quarters to accommodate its expanded staff. Five more attor­neys were approved, and with the two new Com­missioners the budget of $394,000 for 1967 grew to a half a million in 1968 (90 percent of the budget was expended for salary and personnel benefits required by law). This reorganization caused some lag in work according to Commissioner Scott's testimony in early 1968,75 and case disposal had dropped from an all time annual high of 34 in 1965 to 14 in 1966 and only 9 in 1967. Nevertheless, the preparatory work was still being vigorously prosecuted by the new team and, in 1968, 26 dockets were completed.76 
HU.s", Congress, Senate, Committee on Interior and Insular Affairs, Hearing on the /\i'omination ojAtargarer H. Pierce to be a Commissioner a/the Indian Claims Com­mission. 90th Cong., 2nd sess.• Oct, 9. 1968. U.S. Congress., Senate, Committee on Interior and Insular Affairs. Hearings on the Nomination oj Brant/e) Blue to be a Commissioner of the Indian Claims Commi5Si'on. 9tst Ccng 1st sess • April 24, 1969 
HU S, Congress House Committee on Appropriations, Hearing on H. R /7354 for Appropriarions for the Department of interior and Rl!lared <.l.gendes for /969. 90th Cong 2nd 5e55 1968 180J.l6 
1~Annu111 Report of the Indian Claims Commission. 19":' '* 
The new procedures adopted by the Commission were largely responsible for its increased output. The Commission completed the trial calendar called for in the extension act of 1967 in early 1968. It then established the Office of Chief Counsel to supervise and correlate the work of the increasing staff of attorneys. On July 1.5, 1968, the amended General Rules of Procedure became effective. The Commis­sioners were aided in this revision of the procedures by an ad hoc committee of the plaintiffs and the Justice Department attorneys who practiced before the Commission. The new rules clamped down on extensions and made several minor changes for effi­ciency. It also made three important major changes. Prior to 1968, more than one Commissioner was gen­erally present at a trial. Under the new rules only one was required in attendance, which allowed his colleagues to attend to other duties or hear other cases. Another major change was the increased use 
of pretrial conferences and procedures to shorten the actual trial. Lastly, expert witnesses were re­quired to submit written testimony in advance. At the trial they testified only on cross-examination. 77 This had long been the general practice of other Federal Commissions and did more than any other change to increase the output of the Commission. 
Under its new Chairman, Jerome Kuykendall, the Commission moved ahead with its still formidable workload. By July 1, 1969, the Commission had finished 51 percent of its work. In that year the five Commissioners had 11 attorneys on the professional staffand a budget of $619,000. The work output con­tinued to rise from 1968 and the completed dockets for 1969 reached a new single-year high of 49. The next year the awards total finally surpassed that of dismissals, 163 to 159. By 1971, the Commission had doubled its legal staffto continue its increasing work output.78 
In 1970, the Commission continued the reorgani­zation of procedure. The Commission conducted a study ofits accomplishments and future work needs. This had never been done before in an analytical manner. Kuykendall testified that the Commission, as well as the Congress, never before accurately knew the extent of its workload. This analysis was completed and made available to Congress and the Bureau of the Budget. Most important, in 1970, Chairman Kuykendall told a Senate hearing that the 
17General Rules oj Procedure of the Indian Claims Commission 33 Federal Register 9236. 1968 
:'i'lU ,S '. Congress. House. Committee on Appropriations Hearings on H. R 17.319for Appropriations for the Department of Interior and Rdllted Agencies for /97/. 9Ist Cong, 2nd sess 1970, 2209":!9 
17 



Commission could not finish by 1972. But he tenta­tively told them that with the 1971 budget allowance for 21 lawyers and a firm adherence to the proposed schedule. they could finish by 1976. Five more years were necessary. 79 
The Commission now moved to request a fourth renewal. It had completed 44 more dockets since 1969 and had adjusted its progress "at a rate con­sistent with completion" by April 1977. 80 Kuykendall told the House Indian Subcommittee that the "new Commission" had attempted a crash program in 1968 to finish by 1972, but staff shortages and un­accountable delays made it impossible. But, said the Chairman, since 1970 productivity was high and the prospect ofcompletion by 1977 was very good.81 He cautioned that non-renewal would mean that "those tribes who had cases not yet completed would get nothing on those claims;" about 50 tribes would not get their day in court. 82 
As the Commission entered 1972, its last year of operation by the renewal act of 1967, the movement for another extension gained momentum. The record stood at 164 dismissals and 182 awards for $410 million; 264 cases were still pending.. The Commis­sion had 42 employees and a budget of $1,04.5,000 for 1972. Chairman Kuykendall told the Senate Appropriations Committee that he "hoped" they could finish in another .5 years. 83 What had pre­viously been a hope was finally a possibility. The Commission's pace had indeed picked up. More dockets were completed by monetary awards from 1968 to 1972 than were made during the entire prior life of the Commission (102·100). (The number of dismissals also favored the claimants: 44 to 131.) 
The debate over the fourth renewal of the Com­mission was short. The bills ofrenewal made it clear that the life of the Commission was to finally end in 1977. Two similar bills Were introduced in Congress, varying only in minor points. The House Committee on Interior and Insular Affairs considered allowing the Commission to end in 1972 and transferring all caseS to the Court of Claims, but it concluded that such action would result in delay and not save any administrative expenses. It was willing to extend because the renewal bill provided for (1) automatic 
"Ibid 
80U S Congress. Senate, Committee on Appropriations, Hearings on H, R. 94/7 for 
Appropriations for the Department ojInterior and Related Agencies for 1972. 92nd 
Cong 1st sess 1971. 1433.s0 

81U.S., Congress, Senate, Subcommittee on Indian Aff'airs of the Committee on 
Interior and Insular Affairs, Hearing on 5. 2408 to Authorize the Ex/ension of the 
Indian Claims Commission 92nd Cong. 1st sess. Oct 21. 1971.30,15.40,1 

82See note 83 
uU,S... Congress. Senate. Commiuee on Appropriations Hearings on Appropriations for the Department ofInterior and Related Agenciesfor /972. 92nd Cong '. 2nd sess,. 1972. 2761·88 
transfer of remaining claims. if any, to the Court of Claims in 1977, (2) dismissal with prejudice of dila­tory claims, (3) progress reports to each session of Congress, and (4) yearly authorization hearings be­fore the Indian Affairs Subcommittees as well as the unusual appropriation committees hearings. This bill was an administration measure worked out by the Commission and the Office of Management and Budget. With a few minor amendments to enforce calendar compliance it was accepted. Congressional intent was pointedly expressed that this renewal would be the last. "If delay on the part of the Gov­ernment threatens to defeat this policy, the Commit­tee on Interior and Insular Affairs expects to be noti­
fied at the earliest opportunity." Congress intended to tighten further its scrutiny over the Commission's work. 84 
One source of delay that threatened to slow the Commission's progress more than any other was the accounting cases. These claims, briefly discussed previously, involved some 50 cases that hinged on a Government accounting of the USe of Indian trust funds. The record of these funds usually covered many decades and involved thousands of financial transactions. The Justice Department had, as a matter of form to determine offsets, requested ac­counting reports on all petitions since 1946. This work was completed by September 1971. 85 When the numerous figures Were totaled and arrayed in appro­priate accounting form, the legal question then be­came whether the various summary expenditures charged against the Indians Were proper. For exam­ple, did the Government follow the Menominee rule and expend money from noninterest-bearing funds before interest-bearing funds? The amount to make these funds "whole" for funds judged improperly 
spent was the basis for a money judgment. But these claims had to await the Government's completion of the reports and Were pushed by plaintiffs to the end of the docket behind the more familiar land claims and were neglected until the 1960's. 
As it stood in 1971, the accountings being com­pleted, the Commission could have dealt with them despite their complexities. But in 1966, a ruling in the Southern Ute case expanded the scope of these claims. Until this decision the accountings Were re­quired only to 1946 in compliance with the Commis­sion's Act that forbade consideration of any claim accruing after August 13, 1946. Nevertheless, the 
Itu,s", Congress. House. Committee on Interior and Insular Affairs. Extending 'hi' Life of 'he Indian Claims Commission. 92nd Cong..• 2nd se50 • March I, 1972. H Rept. 895 to accomp. H R 10390 
"See note 81, 35 
( 
c 
t 1 ( 
C t c 
a t i: 
I: 
t 
~ 
t 
( 
f 
b e· 
tj 
I 
rr 
(t 
c: 5 i' 
j 
t t 
c 
a f 
f 
c 5 
1 
1= 


of ila­of 
J 
as his by nd ce 
I 
ral 
v­
it­ti­
~d 
d 
11 a 
s Government had brought its reports up to 1951 be­cause most of the records were located in Washing­ton, D.C., and were completed from 1975 to 19.51. The Southern Ute decision, affirmed by the Court of Claims, held that the tribe's accounting must be up­dated from 1951 to be cun'ent with the date of trial because of the possible "continuing" nature of some of the claims. 86 
This ruling presented a potentially "insurmount­able burden" to the General Services Administra­tion. 81 The records subsequent to 1951 were mostly in federal record centers in the Mid and Far West and in field offices of the Bureau of Indian Affairs. Also, the number of specialized personnel in the General Services Administration needed to handle this burden was "woefully inadequate."88 When the General Services Administration received this job from the General Accounting Office in 196.5 the work had been ongoing for 40 years but was scheduled to end in 6. The General Services Administration met this schedule and finished the 96 remaining petitions plus the 19 added after 1965. It did this with its own personnel and the 37 experts that transferred from the General Accounting Office. On schedule and with a declining workload on a terminal job, the General Services Administration allowed attrition to reduce its staff. Representatives of the General Services Administration did say, though, that they could do the job if funded. Both the Justice Department and 
the Commission agreed that the Court of Claims could "readily handle" these cases if any remained after 1977. 89 Thus assured, Congress passed the fourth renewal act on March 17, 1972. 90 
The accounting issue was the main one in the de­bate over the fourth extension act but as an element of delay it was only one factor among many in the long history of items blamed for slowing the Com­mission's work and prolonging its life. Key legal decisions also contributed to the need for extension past 1972. In select claims the Commission found it necessary, "in good conscience," to set new prece­dents that led to extended litigation. 
The Commission had led a busy existence in its fourth period of renewal. Its Commissioners had changed, and many ofits procedures. Its output over 5 years improved over that of the 8-year period from 1960 to 1969: 146 to 126 dispositions. But with 227 pending cases,the Commission still had an arduous 
"Southern Vte Tribe v, V S. Docket No, 328. 17 Ind, CI Comm 28.63. 1966 
"See note 78. 54 USee note 84 "Ibid "86 Stat, 114 March 30, 1972 
charge. To finish its total docket by 1977 it had to 
increase its annual decisions by 50 percent. This was 
a possibility but the accounting cases made it un­
likely. 
Entering its last renewal period in 1972, the Com­
mission in its remaining years set itself to finish as 
much ofits docket as possible. It also pushed for new 
administrative measures it deemed necessary to 
hasten or facilitate its work. The Commission had 
the resources to finish the bulk of its cases, that is 
the land claims, by 1977, but there were still ele­
ments of the claims process that were largely be­
yond its control. Appeals to the Court of Claims 
were the right of the two contending parties and once 
a case was taken to the Court the Commission had to 
await its ruling. Appeals were always a part of the 
Commission's litigation delay but their incidence in­
creased slightly after 1972, amounting to one-third 
ofthe cases. Several ofthe accounting cases were on 
appeal by 1975 and promised to be a form of claim 
that would necessitate appeal in every case to the 
Court of Claims and even to the Supreme Court, 
which had only granted a review on certiorari thrice 
in the life of the Commission. In total, there had 
been 206 appeals. The Commission was affirmed in 
96 of those, reversed in 79, and partially affirmed 
and reversed in the remainder. 91 Also, with the ac­
counting cases, as with appeals, the Commission had 
to wait on the work of another agency---the General 
Services Administration. 
Yet, by 1973, a good deal of activity was taking place upon the Indian claims. The Commissioners testified that they had adequate staff and budget in 1972 and 1973. Congress had moved to eliminate some areas of claims delay. The Expert Assistance Loan Fund established in 1963 and doubled in 1966 was increased again in 1973 to $2.7 million. 92 Funds were appropriated for the General Services Admin­istration in late 1972 to rebuild its accounting staff from a low point of two. This staff had reached only nine by early 1973, but in another 2 years soared to 
103.93 And, Congress streamlined the process of final award distribution. 
The Commission's progress through 1975 was good. At the close of 1972, 227 of the 611 dockets were still pending but all of the land cases were in some advanced stage of litigation or on appeaL Early in 1973, the Commission worked out a pr~jection of 
~t us .Congress, House, Subcommittee on the Committee on Appropriations. Hear­ings on Appropriations for the Department ofInterior and Rdaud A.gender for 197.5 PI I. 93td Cong • 2nd se", 1974.391401 
"87 Stat 73, May 24 1973 
91U S.. Congress, Senate Subcommittee on Indian Affairs ofthe Committee on Interior and Insular Affairs, Hearing 011 5, 876 to AItlhori:.e Appropriativns fvr the Indian Claims Commission/or Fiscal Year 1976, 94th Cong .. 1st sess . April 18 1975 78 
19 


annual output to complete it cases by 1977. From 
1973 through 1977 it proposed annually to complete 
33,43,79,47, and 25 cases respectively.94 Through 
1974 it was ahead ofits schedule but appeals held up 
its progress. By March 1975, 176 dockets were still 
pending. The 44 member staff, now operating on a 
budget of $1,324,000, was deemed adequate by 
Chairman Kuykendall to handle the work brought to 
it, but he could not assure the Congress that the 
work would be completed by 1977. He did say, 
though, that it was not the Commission's intention to 
ask for another extension. 95 
Other agencies of Government and the private 
sector, though, were active in promoting extension 
past 1977. At the Commission's 1976 authorization 
hearing, representatives of the Court of Claims and 
the tribes urged another renewal of at least 3 years. 
The proponents of more time believed that the re­
maining cases could best be completed in the Com­
mission rather than the Court of Claims. They saw a 
transfer of unfinished cases to the Court as ineffi­
cient, costly, and counterproductive to all con­
cerned. 96 
Several arguments to give the Commission an­other lease on life were put forward. The dissolution of the Commission as scheduled, it was claimed, would (1) leave some 120 dockets as a legacy to the Court of Claims, an unmanageable number not con­templated in 1972, (2) saddle the Court with the 51 complex accounting cases, (3) congest an already busy Court, (4) lead to further delay by the very process of transfer, (5) fail to utilize the expertise built up by the Commission, and (6) cause an in­justice to the tribes that would not be heard by the same tribunal. 
The debate over a renewal of the Commission lasted for 18 months. With little chance of gaining another 5 years, considering the directives of Con­gress in 1972, the adherents of extension fought for one of 3~ years. Several bills in the House and Senate had varying success but none could gain the assent of both bodies. In general, the bills made their case upon leaving as little work for the Court of Claims as possible, eliminating delay, and keeping Congress closely informed. 
The result ofthe division on the future ofthe Com­mission was a Congressional compromise on an administration bill allowing an 18-month extension. Public Law 94-46.5 was passed on October 8, 1976. 
&4See note 73 
9:'U,S '. Congress. Senate. Subcommittee of the Committee on Appropriations. Hear­
ings on Appropriations for the Deparlment ofInterior and Relaled Agencies for /976. 
94th Cong,.lst sess. March 12, 1975 203-·7 
'6See note 93 

This act extended the life of the Commission to Sep­tember 30, 1978, and provided (1) that, no later than December 31, 1976, the Commission would certify and transfer to the Court of Claims all cases it deter­mined it could not finish by September 30, 1978, 
(2) 
that, at any time prior to September 30, 1978, the Commission could transfer other cases, and 

(3) 
that all unfinished cases would be transferred to the Court of Claims on September 30, 1978. 


With its end firmly in sight, the Commission con­tinued its work and attempted to fulfill its mandate to lighten its remaining caseload. By September 1976 it had disposed of 474 dockets and had 141 pending; 16 of these were on appeal before the Court of Claims. Before the deadline of December 31, 1976, it transferred 20 cases to the Court that it had deter­mined could not be completed before 1978. As of January I, 1977, the Commission had 21 months left to complete some 120 dockets, though one-quarter of these were accounting cases which would surely be transferred. 
The Commission on January 1, 1978, had 102 dockets remaining and a fair chance at leaving a man­ageable remnant to the Court of Claims. The Court had secured a law in July of 1977 (P.L. 9.5-69) to de­fine more precisely the transference of claims and increase its staffand was prepared to take over from the Commission. Less than 68 dockets remained undisposed by September 1978, and the prospect for their final resolution by the Court of Claims within the hoped for 5 years seemed good. 
Conclusion 
The process of Indian claims resolution has been a lengthy one and the Indian Claims Commission was simply an element of that process. Very few of the legal issues of Indian history have progressed to a point where a conclusion can be written to them. The legal history of Indian claims is certainly not one of these few. The Commission may terminate but, in spite of the Congressional mandate that Indian claims arising prior to 1946 also terminate, they will persist. 
The future of the debate on land claims rests now in a more searching examination of the treaties and the intent of both participants. It also lies in how far the Indians are able to push their claims for land and how far the United States is willing to acknowledge them. Between these contending positions the treaties will be interpreted or reinterpreted, or even revoked, as the ripening climate ofAmerican opinion allows it to happen. 
( 
se\ use anc hiI" int' ten of: soc cor cer to act fin! Ac stu the 

its 



;ep­han tify 
t\.,. ­
178, 78, md 
red 
.­
rIg; 
of "it 
<. • 
of eft 
leI' 
~Iy 
.n·· 1ft 
e­
1d 
m 

::>r 
in 
a 
lS 
e a e 
n rI II 
v 
r 
Considering its limitations, the Commission had several positive effects. For one, some tribes have used their share of the $800 million in awards wisely and aided their economies. Secondly, others have hired full-time legal counsel to serve their ongoing interests. The Commission, with its extended tenure, has greatly raised the "legal consciousness" of the tribes. Thirdly, large segments of American society, in public and private life, have con­comitantly had their own consciousness raised con­cerning Indians, reservations, and the tribal relation to the American Government via the ancient but active treaties. Fourth, the ethno-historical research findings amassed as a by-product ofthe Commission Act constitute an unprecedented source for the study ofIndian-white relations. The tribes now have the satisfaction that their side of American History 
has finally been told with voluminous documenta·· tion. Lastly, the process of the Commission's work, over 3 decades, has brought the many tribes together in one cause and given them a cause for unity that they have rarely had. These are not minor accom­plishments. 
The last question that needs an answer is did the Indians gain "their day in court?" The answer is yes. The Commission was a court, complete with appelate review. And it was unique among courts in its jurisdiction over "moral claims" and having no statute oflimitations except the requirement that the claims must have accrued prior to 1946. The tribes, 
represented by some of the best legal talent in the 
country, litigated more than .500 claims and won 
awards on over 60 percent of them. 
This struggle for perpetuating Indian culture and settling tribal claims has run through American history for almost 150 years. Possibly it will continue for another century or until America finds an accom­modation with these internal wards. There is no easy solution to this problem, or maybe no solution at all. For, at best, the existence of a tribal society within the borders of a highly individualistic and technical culture is tenuous. It is not that the tribal society materially threatens the technological way of life, but that it presents a moral threat to settled myths. It keeps an unpleasant past alive and presents chal­lenging questions for the future. Perhaps it is time to appreciate that the triumphs of the frontier period were mitigated by the sordid dealings with the Indians. "To dust off and to pour over these old 
account books might show us what investments to avoid in the future. That would certainly be one path evening the balance of the future, though the debits offormer errors will remain forever old debts beyond reparations, atonement or forgiveness. "97 The Indian Claims Commission went a long step in this direction but could offer only money. Other remedies to the unresolved problems between the Government and the Indians may now be found. 
"Cecil D Eby, The Black Hawk War ThaI Disgraceful Affair (New York: Norton, 1973),24 
21 

Alphabetical Index of Indian Claims Commission Cases 
Through September 1, 1978 

Tribe Vol Page Decision 	Date Disposition 
Absentee Delaware of Oklahoma, see Delaware 
Absentee Shawnee of Oklahoma, see Shawnee 
Acoma, Pueblo de, see Pueblo de Acoma, Dkt 266 
Alaska Cases. see AleutCommunity ofSt Paul Island,Dkt. 352;AleutTribe, et al., DkL 369; Athabaska Indians, Stevens Village, Dkt. 199; Chitina, Natives of, DkL 187; Gambell, Native Village of, et al., Dkt. 284; Nisgah Tribe, DkL 287; Palmer, Alaska, Natives of, Dkt. 370; Shungnak, Native Village of, and Kowagmut Tribe, Dkt 286; Tatitlek Village, Natives of, Dkt 200; Tee-hit··ton, Dkt. 171; Tlingit and Haida, et al., Dkts. 278 & 278-A; T1ingit and Haida and Angoon Tribe, DkL 278-B; Unalakleet, Native Village of, et al., DkL 285; Aleut Community of SL George Island, Dkt 369-A 
Alabama··Coushatta of Texas, see intervenors in Caddo, Dkt. 226 
Aleut Community of St. 19 140 Opinion holding Commission has jurisdiction 5/2/68 
Paul Island, DkL 352, con·· Order denying motions for summary judgment 5/2/68 
solidated with Native 188 C.C. I Affirmed 6/20/69 
Village of Unalakleet, DkL 22 356 Opinion on motion for default judgment & 
285 & Aleut Tribe, DkL 369 motion to suspend further proceedings 12/23/69 
for rulings on motions 22 359 Order denying motions & directing defendant 

to answer 	12/23/69 
Aleut Community of SL 23 371 Opinion on motions to strike amended 
Paul Island, DkL 352, and petitions 7/29/70 
Aleut Tribe, Dkt. 369 375 Order denying motions to strike 7/29/70 

27 	177 Opinion on motions to dismiss 3/24/72 186 Order granting motions to dismiss 3/24/72 
202 CC. 182 	Affirmed as to land claims; reversed as to claims for breach of fail' & honorable deal­ings; remanded 6/20/73 
202 CC. 205 Rehearing denied 9/28173 35 21 Opinion in Dkt. 369 10/17/74 30 Order denying motion for judgment & for other purposes in Dkl.. 369 10/17i74 31 Order denying motion for more definite state­ment in Dkt. 352 10/17/74 
36 	235 Opinion 7/18/75 251 Concurring opinion 7/18/75 252 Order granting motion to sever from Dkt 369 
claim of St. George Island and consolidating that claim for trial in DkL 352 7/18/75 
42 I Opinion -Damages 6/9/78 42 Findings 6/9/78 152 Interlocutory order 6/9/78 
42 526 	Order granting plaintiffs' motion for final severance of claims, & for other purposes 8/30/78 
Aleut Community of St. 42 529 Final award 8/30/78 $11,239,604..00 Paul Island, Dkt. 352; and for breach of fail' Aleut Community of SL & honorable George Island, Dkt. 369-A, dealings consolidated, see prior decisions above under Dkts. 352 & 369 
American Indians Residing on the Maricopa-Ak Chin Reservation, Dkt. 235, see Maricopa-Ak Chin Reservation 
Angoon Tribe, DkL 278-B, see Tlingit and Haida Indians of Alaska 
Apache Nation, et al., unnumbered Order dismissing 5/8/64 Dismissed Dkt.22 
23 



Alphabetical Index of Indian Claims Commission Cases 
Through September 1, 1978-Continued 

Tribe Vol. Page 	Decision Date Disposition 7 
----_.. _-----­
Apache, Jicarilla, Okt. 12 439 Findings -Title (Okt. 22-A) 8/26/63 A 22-A; and Kiowa, 470 Opinion 8/26/63 2: Comanche and Apache, Interlocutory order 8/26/6.3 T Okt. 257 2: 
2: Apache, Jicarilla, 17 338 Additional findings -Oate of taking 11/9/66 $9,150,000..00 OkL 22-A 406 Opinion 11/9/66 for land 
Interlocutory order 11/9/66 Report of Commissioner 5/29/69 24 123 Opinion -Value 12/2170 
1.32 Additional findings 12/2170 146 Interlocutory order 12/2/70 A 
25 	227 Additional findings -Compromise 4/21/71 D 248 Final award 4/21171 C 
Apache, Lipan and 15 532 Per curiam opinion 8/6/65 $10,000,000.00 
Mescalero, Okt. 22-C Order granting motion to dismiss 8/6/65 for land 
180 C.C. 487 Reversed & remanded 6/9/67 
22 I Opinion on Tigua's motion to intervene 11/5/69 
9 Interlocutory order granting Tigua's motion 
to intervene 11/5/69 
27 48,5 Order granting part & denying part of 
Tonkawa's motIOn to intervene 4/19172 
34 287 Order denying motion to consolidate Okt. 
257 w/Okts, 22-C & 226 7/17174 
35 302 Order granting in part motion to dismiss 
applications to intervene, etc. 1/15/75 


35 378 	Order [based on opinion in Caddo, Dkt. 226] denying motion for consolidation of Okts. 226 & 22-C 1/24175 
36 7 Opinion -Title 3/14/75 23 Findings 3/14175 67 Interlocutory order 3/14/75

37 221 	Opinion on mtervenors' motion to amend order granting in part motion to dismiss applications to intervene 2/19/76 
227 Order denying motion 2/19/76 37 229 Findings -Compromise 2/19/76 239 Final award 2/19/76 
Apache, Mescalero, 17 100 Findings -Title 7/7/66 $8,500,000.00 OkL 22·B 150 Opinion 7/7/66 for land Interlocutory order 7/7/66 
Apache, Mescalero, 18 367 	Findings -Compromise 4/27/67 
Okts. 22-B & 22-G 378 	Opinion 4/27/67 Final judgment in Okt. 22-B & dismissal of claims in Count I of petition in OkL 22-G 4/27/67 
Apache, .san Carlos, White 21 189 Opinion -Title 6/27/69 SeeSan Carlos Mountain, et 01 .., Okt. 22-0; 198 Findings 6/27/69 of Arizona, and Navajo, Okt 229 221 Interlocutory order 6/27/69 Okl,223 
Apache, San Carlos, et 01., 28 399 Findings -Compromise 9/12172 $4,900,000.. 00 Okt. 22-0, and Apache, 421 Final award in Okt. 22··0 9/12172 awarded in Okt. Northern Tonto, Okt. 22-J 423 Final award in Okl., 22-J 9/12172 22-0, and 
$685,800.00 in Okt. 22-J for land 
Apache, Yavapai, 15 68 Findings -Title 3/3/65 Okt.22-E 95 Opinion 3/3/65 Order 3/3/65 
15 	193 Order amending finding 34 3/24/65 
Apache, Yavapai, Okts, 20 361 Additional findings -Compromise 3/13/69 $5,100,000.00 22-E & 22-F 377 Final judgment 3/13/69 awarded for land in Okts. 22-E & F 

Alphabetical Index of Indian Claims Commission Cases 
Through September 1, 1978-Continued 

Tribe 	Vol. 
Apache, Mescalero, Okt.. 23 22-G, see also Shoshone Te··Moak Bands, Okt. 31 236-A; and Apache, Okt. 22-B 207 c.c. 
C.c. 
425 U,S., 39 
Apache, San Carlos, et a!.., 33 
Dkt 22-H, see also San 
Carlos of Arizona, Dkt. 223 39 

Apache, Northem Tonto, 21 
Yavapai, et al., Dkt. 22-J, 
and Navajo, Okt. 229 

Apache, Jicarilla, 33 
Dkt. 22..K 

Apache, Fort Sill, et aI.., 
Dkt.30 

Apache, Fort Sill, 22 Chiricahua Tribe, Warm Springs Band, Chiricahua Band, Okts.. 30 & 48; and Navajo, Dkt. 229 
Apache, Fort Sill, 19 Chiricahua Tribe, Warm Springs Band, Chiricahua Band, Dkts. 30-A & 48-A 
Apache, Fort Sill, 23 Chiricahua Tribe, Warm Springs Band, Dkts, 3D-A 25 & 48-A, 30 & 48, & 182 
26 
202 C.C 
Page Decision 
181 Opinion on motion for proper accounting 188 Order 559 Order [on interest issue based on opinion 
in Dkt. 326-·Aj 
369 	Affirmed in part; reversed in part & Remanded (Dkts., 22-G, 326-C, & 326-A) Rehearing denied 
911 Certiorari denied 239 Order certifying & transfening to COUIt of Claims 
416 Order granting motion for supplemental accounting 239 Order certifying & transfening to Court of Claims 
223 Opinion -Title 
230 Findings 
252 Interlocutory order 

364 	Findings -Compromise 
388 	Final award 
137 	Opinion -Dismissal of 1st cause 
(imprisonment claim) 
Order dismissing 1st cause 

527 Opinion -Title, Navajo overlap 
533 Findings
544 Interlocutory order 

212 Findings -Title 
248 Opinion 
Interlocutory order 

417 	Order denying motion for rehearing and 
reconsideration of date of taking 
352 Opinion -Value 
364 Additional findings 
380 Interlocutory order 
382 Order denying motion to consolidate Dkts, 

3D-A, 48·A, 30, 48, & 182 
384 Interlocutory order in Dkts 30 & 48 
193 Additional findings in Dkts 3D-A & 48..A 

re stipulation on offsets 
197 Interlocutory order in Okts, 30 & 48, and 
Dkts 30-A & 48-A 
198 Final judgment in Dkts., 30 & 48, and Dkts. 
30-A & 48-A 
134 Affirmed 

Apache, Fort Sill, Warm unnumbered Opinion 
Springs Band, and  
Chiricahua Bands,  
Dkt. 49  26  
201 C.c.  
C.c.  
416 U.S  
j  
Apache, Fort Sill, et ai"  28  
Dkt. 182, see also Apache,  
Fort Sill, et ai, Dkt30-A  
29  

Order overruling motion for severance & 
dismissal of three of the petitioners 281 Opinion on motion to dismiss 294 Concurring opinion 296 Dissenting opinion 301 Order dismissing 630 Affirmed 
Rehearing denied 993 Certiorari denied 
433 Opinion re motion to separate or sever claims 443 Dissenting opinion 452 Order granting motion 126 Order denying motion for rehearing 
Date Disposition
------_. 
6/10/70 Transfert'ed to 6/10/70 COUIt of Claims 
10/4/73 
7/11/75 
10/3/75 
4/5/76 

12/15/76 
Transfen'ed to 3/20/74 Court of Claims 
12/15/76 
6/27/69 see Apache, San 6/27/69 Carlos, Dkt.. 6/27/69 22-0, and final 
award, above 
2121/74 $7,000,000.00 
2/21/74 for accounting 
4/6/49 
4/6/49 
4/1/70 
4/1/70 
4/1/70 

6/28/68 
6/28/68 
6/28/68 

$521,796..00 
8/26/70awarded in Dkts" 6/9/71 30 & 48, and 6/9171 $15,967,300.00 6/9171 in Dkts" 30-A & 
48-A for land 6/9171 6/9171 
8/25171 
8/25/71 
8/25/71 
6/20/73 
10/22/51 Dismissed 
10/22/51 
9/24171 
9/24/71 
9/24171 
9/24171 
5/11/73 
11/14/73 
5113/74 

9113172 Appealed to 
9113172 Court of Claims 
9/13172 May 1978 
10/18172 

25 

Alphabetical Index of Indian Claims Commission Cases 

Through September 1, 1978-Continued 
lribe Voi. Page Decision 	Date 
Apache, Fort Sill, et ai., 29 188 Opinion on motions II/29m Dkt.. 182, see also Apache, 193 Order denying motion to dismiss or to strike Fort Sill, et ai., Dkt., 30-A exceptions or for more definite statement & (cont.) granting motion to amend petition lli29m 
202 CC. 525 Appeal dismissed 	71l3n3 
34 81 Opinion -Damages, Group A claims 5/1On4 105 Fmdings 5/1On4 120 Interlocutory order 5/I0n4 121 Order permitting filing of defendant's supple­
mental memorandum 5/10n4 34 204 Order granting motion for severance ofclaims 6/19n4 41 37 Opinion _. Recognized title 10/6/77 
52 Fmdings 10/6/77 72 Interlocutory order 10/6/77 41 175 Order denying rehearing 2/8m 
Apache, Fort Sill, et ai., 205 CC" 805 Appeal partially dismissed 12/18n4 Dkts. 182 & 182-A 209 CC. 433 Reversed & remanded 4/14/76 
Apache, Fort Sill, et af, 40 143 Opinion -Measure of damages 5/6177 
Dk!. 182-A 154 Interlocutory order 5/6177 40 260 Order denying rehearing 7/21177 41 83 Order certifying & transferring Dkt. 182-A to 
Court of Claims 	10127177 
Apache, see also Kiowa, Comanche and Apache, Dkts" 32, 257, 258, 259, & 259-A 
Arapaho, Northern unnumbered Order dismissing 8/15/51 Dkt. 82 
Arapaho, Northern, 12 212 Additional findings on compromise settlement of Wind River Reservation, of offsets 6/27/63 Dkt.. 329-D 229 Opinion 6/27/63 
Final judgment 	6/27/6,3 
Arapaho, see Cheyenne-Arapaho, Dkts" 329, 329..A, B, & D, & 348 
Arikara Tribe, see Fort Berthold, Three Affiliated Tribes 
Assiniboine Indians, 530 Opinion on motion for summary judgment 4/27/51 
Dk!.62 Final order 4/27/51 
573 Per curiam opinion 6/22/51 
Order for rehearing 6/22151 

2 	272 Opinion 12/12/52 300 Concurring opinion 12/12/52 
Order dismissing 12/12/52 128C.C. 617 Affirmed 6/8/54 348 U,S. 863 Certiorari denied 10/25/54 
Assiniboine, see aiso Fort Belknap, Dkt. 250; Intervenors in Blackfeet and Gros Ventre, Dkt.. 279-A 
Athabaska Indians of unnumbered Order dismissing 6/4/57 Stevens Village, Alaska, Dkt., 199 
Bannock or Bannack, ue Shoshone-Bannock 
Bay Mills Community, 7 576 Findings _. Title 5/20/59 et ai., Dkt. 18-E; Ottawa 605 Opinion 5/20/59and Chippewa of Michigan, Interlocutory order 5/20/59Okt, 58 20 137 Opinion -value 12/23/68 
141 	Additional findings 12/23/68 Second interlocutory order 12/23/68 
22 	372 Opinion on consideration item 1/14/70 378 Findings 1114no 381 Third interlocutory order 1114/70 383 Order denying motion for preliminary 
adjudication 1/14/70 24 50 Opinion on motion for rehearing & modifica­tion of finding 1O/28no 
Disposition 
B: 
et 
ar DJ (0 
Bl 
S~ 
B, 
B~ 
Transferred to Sa! Court of Claims B~ 
B'j
Dismissed 	I. 
BI; $3,230,000 ,00 Ve for land; see OJ prior decisions under Cheyenne-Arapaho, Dkts. 329 and 348 
Bh 
Dismissed 	Ve As Be Re Fo Int 
As~ 
Int Dismissed 
$10,109,001.55 Bla for land Ve' 
Bla Vel anc Cor 




Alphabetical Index of Indian Claims Commission Cases 
Through September 1, 1978-Continued 

1S 
Ie-Biloxi, see Pascagoula, Biloxi and Mobilian Consolidated Band, Dkt. 170 
Tribe  Vol..  Page  
Bay Mills Community, et al., Dkt. 18-E; Ottawa and Chippewa of Michigan, Dkt.58 (cont.)  26 27  54 538 550 562 94  
27  97  
Bay Mills Community, Sault Ste. Marie Bands, Dkt. 18-F  22 35 208 c.c.  79 81 84 32 54 58 73 1001  
Bay Mills Community, Sault Ste. Marie Bands, Dkt.. 18-R  22 32 206 C.C.  85 87 91 303 311 319 850  

Decision  Date  Disposition  
Order amending findings of5/20/59 and adding a finding Opinion ­offsets Additional findings Final award Order denying in part & granting in part motion to amend decision Amended final award  10128nO 12/29/71 12/29/71 12/29/71 3/15n2 3/15n2  
Report of Commissioner Opinion -­Title Findings Interlocutory order Opinion ­Value Dissenting opinion Additional findings Order dismissing Affirmed  4/8/69 11/19/69 11/19/69 11/19/69 10124n4 10124n4 10/24n4 10/24n4 11/26n5  Dismissed  
Report of Commissioner Opinion -Title Findings Interlocutory order Opinion -Value Additional findings Final award Affirmed  4/8/69 11/19/69 11/19/69 1lI19/69 12/26n312/26n3 12126m 1/31n5  $15,000,00 for land  

Blackfeet and Gros 
Ventre Tribes, 
Dkt, 279 
Blackfeet and Gms Ventre Tribes, Plaintiffs; Assiniboine of Fort Belknap and Fort Peck Reservations, & Sioux of Fort Peck Reservation, Intervenors, Dkt, 279-A 
Assiniboine Tribes, 
Intervenors 
Blackfeet and Gros Ventre Tribes, Dkt. 279-B 
Blackfeet and Gros Ventre Tribes, Dkt, 279-C, and Fort Belknap Indian Community, Dkt.. 25O-A 
2 302 
127 C.C. 807 348 U.S. 835 unnumbered 
unnumbered 
162 c.,C, 18 
19 
19 136 241 289 
363 365 
361 
unnumbered 
21 
192 c.c. 
15 
175 C.C. 32 
34 310 
313 315 679 
561 569 
893 
65 
149 150 122 155 Opinion 12/17/52 Order sustaining in part & denying in part motion for summary judgment 12/17/52 Affirmed 3/2/54Certiorari denied 10/19154Order dismissing petition after viable claims separated and refiled in Dkts. 279-A, 279-B, & 279-C 12/10/68 
Order denying Assiniboine's motion to intervene 10/21/57 Reversed, intervention allowed 6/7/63Findings 3/31/67 Opinion -Title and value 3/31/67 Interlocutory awards to plaintiffs 3/31/67Interlocutory awar'd to Assiniboine 3/31/67 Interlocutory award to Sioux 3/31/67 Final judgment for Blackfeet and Gms Ventre 8/23/68 Final judgment for Sioux 8/23/68 
Final award to the Assiniboine Tribes 8/21/68 Order vacating final award 10/28/68 Opinion -, reconsideration of consideration and offsets 6130169 Additional findings 6/30/69 Final order (award) 6/30/69 Affirmed 7/15170 
Findings 8/16/65 Opinion 8/16/65 Order dismissing petition 8/16/65 Affirmed 5/2166 
Opinion on motions for supplemental accounting, partial summary judgment, and pleadings to conform to the proof 101I8n3 Concurring opinion 10118n3 Interlocutory order 10/18/73 Opinion on motion for rehearing 6n164 Order denying motion for rehearing & for other purposes 6n164 Dismissed 
$3,108,506.40 to the Assiniboine; $1,161,354.41 to the Sioux; and $8,679,814.92 to the Blackfeet and Gms Ventre for land 
Dismissed 
27 


Alphabetical Index of Indian Claims Commission Cases 
Through September 1, 1978-Continued 

Tribe Vol. Page Decision Date 
Blackfeet and Gros  35  15  Order severing separate Blackfeet claims hom  
Ventre Tribes, Dkt. 279-C,  Dkts. 279-C & 250-A and assigning them Dkt.  
and Fort Belknap Indian Community, Dkt. 250-A  279-D, and establishing basis for division of recoveries on joint claims of Blackfeet and  
(cont.)  35  114  Gros Ventre Tribes Order withdrawing Part XI on interest of  
opinion & order of 10/18/73  
39  108  Per curiam opinion on motions  
120  Order on pending motions  
39  293  Opinion  
298 299  Dissenting opinion Order denying motion for admission of'  
evidentiary material  
41  188  Opinion on motion to strike  
191  Order denying motion to strike  
Blackfeet, Dkt. 279-D  35  15  Order severing separate Blackfeet claims, etc,  
39  108  Per curiam opinion  
120  Order on pending motions  
42  202  Order certifying & transfening to Court of'  
Claims  
42  207  Order vacating certification & transfer to  
Court of Claims  

Bois Forte Band, Dkt. 18-D, see Chippewa 
Brothertown Indians, see Emigrant New York Indians 
Cabazon Band of Mission Indians, Dkt. 148, see California Indians 
Caddo Tribe of Oklahoma, unnumbered Order dismissing Counts II & IV of plain­et al., Dkt. 226 tiffs' petition 4 201 Findings ,-title 214 Opinion Interlocutory order 140 C.C 63 Review denied 8 354 Additional findings -Value 373 Opinion Interlocutory order 9 557 Additional findings -offsets 566 Opinion Interlocutory order 19 385 Opinion -Offset question Order reconsidering & denying offset 
22 181 Opinion -Reinstatement of Counts II & IV 185 Order 27 1 Opinion -Coushatta intervention 
8 Order granting Coushatta motion to intervene 27 35 Order granting Wichita motion to intervene 27 74 Order granting Tonkawa motion to intervene 27 88 Opinion -Cherokee intervention 
92 Order denying Cherokee motion to intervene 27 136 Order denying Kickapoo motion to intervene 27 138 Order denying Delaware motion to intervene 34 287 Order denying motions to consolidate Dkt. 257 
wlDkts, 22-C & 226 35 321 Opinion on motions, etc 353 Additional findings 378 Order denying motion to consolidate Dkts" 
226 & 22-C 380 Order denying Wichita motion re exhibits 382 Order granting motion to dismiss complaints 
in intervention 384 Interlocutory order and order dismissing Counts II & IV of plaintiffs' petition 209 C.C. 724 Affirmed 40 266 Opinion on motion to dismiss certain accounting exceptions 286 Order granting motion in part & denying it in part 
9/25/74 
IIn174 
10/15/76 10/15/76 
1/21m 
1/21m 
1/2Im 
2/24/78 
2/24/78 
9/25/74 10/15/76 10/15/76 
7/13/78 
7/17/78 
3/1/55 3/8/56 3/8/56 3/8/56 10/9/57 12/22/60 12/22/60 
12122160 
10/27/61 10/27/61 10/27/61 8/30/68 8/30/68 
12/5/69 
12/5/69 
1/12172 
1/12/72 
2/2172 
3/1/72 3/8/72 3/8/72 3117/72 3/17/72 
7117n4 
1/24/75 1/24/75 
1/24/75 
1/24n5 
1/24/75 
1/24n5 
1/24n5 
3/19/76 
8/4m 
8/4m 
Disposition 
$383,475.55 for land. Remaining general account­ing claims trans­ferred to Court of Claims" 
T 
el 
(c 
Co 
In 

Co 
DI 
Ca 
m 
Ca 
Ok 

Cal 
Dkl & ,3 So-J 
Cal Ind: 
Cali of! 
Cali Mis Dkt 
Cali Ban Dkt. 

Alphabetical Index of Indian Claims Commission Cases 
Through September 1, 1978-Continued 

Tribe 
Caddo Tribe of Oklahoma, 
el al., Dkt. 226 
(cont.) 

California, Federated 

Indians of, Dkt. 12 

California Indians, 

Dkt.31 

California Indians, 

Dkt.37 

California Indians, 

Dkts., 31 & 37 
tS" 
t California Indians, Dkts. 31 & 37 (176, 215, & 333 included), 80 & 80-D, & 347 
California, Pitt River Indians of, et al.. 
Vol. Page 
40 	288 293 298 
41 	304 
unnumbered 
122 C.C. 344 U.S. 
122 C.c. 344 U.S. 4 6 6 
8 
149 
358 366 348 
856 154 383 
392 
419 856 147 
86 93 666 
674 
678 
I 11 
unnumbered 
B 
167 C.C. 379 u.,S 
13 
202 c.c. 419 U.S. 
89 
886 971 
369 513 
988 831 
Decision  Date  Disposition  
Opinion ­Offsets (1835 treaty) Additional findings Final award on land claim under 1835 treaty Order certifying & transfening to Court of Claims  8/4m 8/4m 8/4n7 5/8n8  
Order dismissing  4/28/49  Dismissed  
Per curiam opinion Order overruling motion to dismiss Findings Opinion Order dismissing Reversed & remanded Certiorari denied  5/6/49 5/6/49 12/15/50 12/15/50 12/15/50 5/6/52 10/20/52  See Dkts" 31 & ,37, below  
Per curiam opinion Order denying motion to dismiss Findings Opinion Order dismissing on capacity to sue Reversed & remanded Certiorari denied  5/6/49 5/6/49 12/21/50 12/21/50 12/21/50 5/6/52 10/20/52  See Dkts. 31 & 37, below  
Per curiam opinion Order granting motion to amend Opinion Opinion Opinion Order dividing California into Areas A & B OpinionOrder consolidating Dkts. 176, 215 & 233 wlDkts. 31 & 37 for all purposes, including jud~ment Opmion Order ovelTuling motion to modify decision of 1/20/58 Findings Opinion ­Title Interlocutory order Order clarifying & supplementing findings & amending interlocutory order of 7/31/59 Pel' curiam opinion on Quechan motion to intervene Order denying Quechan intervention Affirmed Certiorari denied  1/19/56 1/19/56 1/20/58 1/20/58 10/6/58 10/6/58 10/6/58 10/6/58 10/6/58 10/6/58 7/31/59 7/31/59 7/31/59 12n159 3/3/64 3/3/64 7/8/64 1/18/65  
Findings -Compromise Opinion Final determination or judgment  7120/64 7/20/64 7/20/64  $29,100,000.00 for land  
Dismissal of petition attacking 1964 judgment of Ind CL Comm, Certiorari denied  10/17173 10/15n4  

California Indians, see also Mission Indians of California; Pitt River Tribe; Shasta Tribe; Yana Tribe of Indians; and Yokiah Tribe 
of Indians  
California Indians,  unnumbered  
Mission Bands of,  
Dkt. 80  
California Indians,  30  419  
BalOn Long, et aI" Dkt. 80-A  31  429 375  
383  

Order permitting filing of amended & supple­mental peitions [asserting causes of action severed from the petition in Dk!., 80 hI, unnumbered orders of 1/11/55, and 8/2 /59] as Dkts, 80-A, 80-B, 80-C, & 80-D  4/4/60  
Opinion on motion to reopen record, etc. Order granting motion Opinion on defendant's motion for rehearing Order denying rehearing  6113173 6/13173 9/19173 9/19173  Transferred to Court of Claims  
29  


Alphabetical Index ofIndian Claims Commission Cases 

Through September 1, 1978-Continued 

Tribe  Vol,  Page  Deci'sion  Date  Disposition  
California Indians,  38  347  Opinion on admissibility of plaintiffs'  
Baron Long, et aI., Dkt.80-A  387  additional exhibits on liability' Order  618176 618176  
(cont.)  39 39  201 203 239  Opinion Order admitting intervenor's missi~ exhibits Order certifying & transferring to ourt of Claims  1212n6 1212n6 12115176  
California Indians, San Pasqual Band, Dkt. 8o-A  30 39  451 461 239  Opinion Order granting motion to amend petition & denying alternative motion to intervene Order certifying & transfening to Court  6/21nJ 6121n3  TransferTed to Court of Claims with other claims in Dkt.  
of Claims  12115176  SO-A  
California Indians, Soboba Band of Mission Indians, Dkt. SO-A  37 39  326 412 490 239  Opinion ­Liability for loss of water Findings Order Order certifying & transferring to Court  3/5176 3/5176 3/5/76  Transferred to Court of Claims with other claims in Dkt.  
of Claims  12/15/76  8o-A  
California Indians,  39  239  Order certifying & transferring to Court  Transferred to  
Baron Long, et ai"  of Claims  12115176  Court of Claims  
Dkt.8D-B  
California Indians,  21  110  Opinion  6/18/69  Dismissed  
Bands of Mission Indians, Dkt.. So-C  112 118  Findings Final order  6/18/69 6/18/69  
California Indians, Cabazon Band of Mission Indians, Dkt. 148  21 25  119 133 141 392  Opinion ­Title Findings Interlocutory order Findings ­Compromise  6/18/69 6118/69 6118/69 6/16171  $100,000,,00 for land  
405  Final award  6116171  
California Indians,  unnumbered  Order dismissing  12/31/58  Dismissed  
Twenty-nine Palm Band,  
Dkt.. 149  
California Indians, Morongo Band,  unnumbered  Order dismissing  3/28/55  Dismissed  
Dkt., 325  
Cayuga, Dkts, 84, 89, and 344, see Six Nations  
Cayuga, Dkt.. 230  26  271 273  Opinion Findings  9/22171 9122n1  Dismissed  
280  Order dismissing  9/22nl  
Cayuga, Dkt. 343  20  70  Opinion on motion for partial summary judgment  11/14/68  $70,000,00 for land  
Order granting partial summary judgment  
(fIrst claim dismissed)  11/14/68  
28  237 242 250  Opinion ­Liability Findings Interlocutory order  7120/72 7120/727120/72  
202 CC. 36 36 41  1101 75 82 98 99 308  Remanded Opinion Additional findings --Remand Interlocutory order Order to show cause Findings -Compromise  6/29nJ 3/27/75 3/27/75 3/27/75 4/23/75 5/11178  
326  Final award  5/11178  
Cayuga, Dkts, 341, 341-A, 341-B, 341-C, 341-D, and 341·E, see Seneca-Cayuga  
Cayuse, Dkt.. 264, see Umatilla Reservation Confederated Tribes  
Chehalis, Upper, Dkt  237  4  301  Findings  6/25/56  $754,380,00  
140CC.  330 192  Opinion Final order dismissing Reversed & remanded  6125/56 6125/56 10/9/57  for land  
30  

) 
TIS 
) 
TIS 
) 
ns 


Alphabetical Index of Indian Claims Commission Cases 
Through September 1, 1978-Continued 

1ribe Vol. Page Decision 
.----:----:----:---:------=--------
Chehalis, Upper, Dkt 237 (cont.) 
Chemehuevi, DkL 351 
Chemehuevi, Dkts.. 351 & 351·A, See also California Indians, Dkts, 31 & 37; Mohave Indians, Dkt, 283 
Cherokee, DkL 17.3 
Cherokee, Cherokee 
Freedmen, Intervenors, 
Dkt. 173-A 

Cherokee, Dkt. 190 
Cherokee, Dkt. 271 
Cherokee, DkL 297 
Cherokee Freedmen, DkL 123, see also Intervenors in Cherokee Nation, Dkt. 173-A 
8 
12 
6 
6 
14 
9 
9 
12 
17 
22 
195 C.C 27 
200 c.c. 27 
12 
180 C.C 
20 
20 
2 
10 
161 C.c. 
13 
436 463 
644 
660 
86 93 
666 
651 673 
162 197 
435 
454 
426 436 
331 
417 426 437 438 
39 23 30 33 583 
34-A 
570 586 
181 
379 
380 
231 
109 127 
787 
13 
unnumbered 
Findings -Title 
Opinion 
Interlocutory order 
Additional findings -Compromise 
Opinion 
Final judgment 

Opinion -Capacity to sue 
Opinion 
Interlocutory order 
Opinion 
Order separating from California 

Findings -Compromise 
Opinion 
Final judgment 

Findings Opinion Interlocutory order (judgment subject to offsets) Additional findings on stipulation for entry of final judgment Opinion on motion for approval of stipulation Final judgment Findings -Offsets Compromise Opinion Order approving settlement of offsets 
Per curiam opinion Order denying motion to dismiss petition of intervenors . Opinion -Value Findings First interlocutory order Order denying intervenor's motion for summary judgment Affirmed Opinion -Offsets Additional findings Final award Affirmed on date of valuation; reversed on offset Order amending opinion & findings, & amended final award 
Findings 
Opinion 
Final order dismissing 
Affirmed 

Order dismissing 
Order dismissing 
Per curiam opinion Order Findings Opinion Order dismissing plaintiffs' petition Afftrmed as to dismissal of the Freedmen's petition, but remanded with direction they be allowed intervention in a pending Cherokee Nation case Pel' curiam opinion Order denying motion to intervene in Cherokee Nation, DkL 173 Order granting Freedmen's motion to intervene in DkL 173-A 
Date  Disposition  
3/14/60 3/14/60  
3/14/60  
10/7/63  
10/7/63 10/7/63  
1/20/58  
1/20/58 1/20/58  
10/6/58  
10/6/58  
1/18/65  $996,834.81  
1/18/65  for land  
1/18/65  
4/3/61  $14,364,476.,15  
4/3/61  for land  
4/3/61  
9/14/61  
9/14/61  
9/14/61  
8/8/63 8/8/63  
8/8/63  
10/5/66  $3,887,557.57  
for land  
10/5/66 2/4170  
2/4170 2/4170  
2/4170  
6/11/71  
2/2/72  
2/2/72  
2/2/72  
2/16/73  
5/30/73  
9/25/63  Dismissed  
9/25/63  
9/25/63 5/12/67  
3/19/69  Dismissed  
3/19/69  Dismissed  
9/9/52  Dismissed  
9/9/5211/28/61  
11/28/61  
11/28/61  
5/10/63  
1/6/64  
1/6/64  
10/12/64  
31  



Alphabetical Index of Indian Claims Commission Cases 
Through September 1, 1978-Continued 

Tribe 	Vol. Page Decision 
Cherokee Freedmen, 
Dkt. 123, see also 
Intervenors in 
Cherokee Nation, 
Dkt. 173-A 
(cont.) 
Cherokee, Eastern 
(Emigrant), Dkt.. 5, 
see also Cherokee, 
Western, Dkt. 2 

Cherokee Indians, 
Eastern (Emigrant), 
Dkt.42 
Cherokee, Eastern 
Band, Dkt. 282 
Cherokee, Eastern Band, Dkts. 282-A through 282..L 
Cherokee, Texas, Dkt. 26 
Cherokee, Western (Old 
Settler) and Eastern 
(Emigrant), Dkt. 2 

Cherokee, Western (Old Settler), DkL .3 
Cherokee, Western (Old Settler), DkL 24 
Cherokee, Western (Old Settler), Dkt. 41 
Cherokee, Western (Old Settler), Dkt 43 
17 331 	Per curiam opinion Order denying motion to dismiss petition of intervention in DkL 173-A 
31 	Opinion 
40 	Concurring opinion Order sustaininll motion for summary judgment and dismissing plaintiffs' petition 
116C.C. 665 Affirmed 
340 U.S. 904 Certiorari denied 

unnumbered Per curiam opinion 
1 408 Findings 

414 	Opinion Conclusions of law & judgment dismissing plaintiffs' petition 
7 140 	Opinion Order dismissing certain claims in plaintiff's petition & dismissing plaintiff's petition upon the filing of separate petitions (assigned Dkts. 282-A through 282-L) for certain other claims in the petition 
28 	386 Findings--Compromise 
398 Final award 

unnumbered Per curiam opinion 
2 516 Findings 
522 Opinion 
Order dismissing 

26 78 	Order denying motions by Alabama-Coushatta Tribes of Texas & Coushatta Tribe of Louisiana to vacate & set aside dismissal 
1 Opinion 
19 	Concuning opinion Order sustaining motion for summary judgment dismissing plaintiffs' petition 
114C.C. 716 Reversed & remanded 2 7 Findings 
22 	Opinion Conclusions of law & judgment dismissing plaintiffs' petition 
124 c..c.. 127 Affirmed 
20 	Opinion 
29 	Concurring opinion Order sustaining motion for summar:y judgment & dismissing plaintiffs' petition 
116C.C. 665 Affirmed 340 U.S. 904 Certiorari denied 
1 165 Opinion 2 37 Findings 50 Opinion Final order dismissing plaintiffs' petition 124 C.C. 315 Affirmed 
unnumbered Per curiam opinion 
1 394 Findings 

399 	Opinion Conclusions of law & judgment dismissing plaintiffs' petition 
unnumbered 	Per curiam opinion 
Order dismissing petition 

Date  Disposition  Tr  
10/5/66 10/5/66  Ct 32' se,  
11/15/48 11/15/48  Dismissed  
11/15/48 5/1/50 12/11/50  Cl 34  
9/13/49 12/28/50 12/28/50  Dismissed  Cl 32  
12/28/50  
2/20/59  Dismissed  
2/20/59  
9/11172 9/11172  $1,855,254.50 for land  
12/27/51 12/28/53 12/28/53 12/28/53  Dismissed  
8/5/71  
11/15/48 11/15/48  Dismissed  
11/15/48 11/7/49 2/19/52 2/19/52  
2/19/52 1/13/53  
11/15/48 11/15/48  Dismissed  
11/15/48 5/15/50 12/11150  
9113/49 4/3/52 4/3/52 4/3/52 2/3/53  Dismissed  
9/13/49 12/28/50 12/28/50  Dismissed  
12/28/50  
9/13/49 6/11/51  Dismissed  



Alphabetical Index of Indian Claims Commission Cases 

Through September 1, 1978-Continued 

Tribe Vol. Page 	Decision Date Disposition 
Cheyenne-Arapaho, Dkts 4 30-A Findings 11/1/55 
329 & 348 3Q-G Interlocutory order granting partial summary 

see Arapaho, Northern judgment 11/1/55 
10 I Findings -Value 12/6/61 
64 Opinion 12/6/61 
Interlocutory order 12/6/61 

unnumbered Order amending findings & opinion 8/2/62 unnumbered Amended interlocutory order 8/2/62 unnumbered Order amending amended interlocutory order 11113/62 
Cheyenne-Arapaho, Dkt. unnumbered Order dismissing petition 2113/64 Dismissed 
348 

Cheyenne-Arapaho, Dkt. unnumbered Order dismissing petition 12/10/68 Dismissed 
329 

Cheyenne and Arapaho 16 162 Findings -Compromise settlement 10/18/65 $15,000,000..00 (Southern), Dkts.. , 329-A 185 Opinion 10/18/65 fOlland & 329-B Final judgment 10/18/65 
Cheyenne Indians, 13 I Additional findings -Compromise 11/27/63 $4,360,886.. 19 
Northern, Dkt. 329-C 20 Opinion 

11/27/63 for land Final judgment 11/27/63 
Cheyenne and Northern 12 212 Findings -Compromise settlement 6/27/63 $3,230,000.00 
Arapaho, Dkt 329-D 229 Opinion 6/27/63 for land 
Final judgment for the Northern 
Arapaho Tribe 6/27/63 

Chickasaw, Dkt. 267 5 478 	Opinion 9/16/57 Dismissed 
Order sustaining motion for summary 
judgment 9/16/57 

Chickasaw, Dkt. 268 10 313 	Opinion 4/20/62 Dismissed Order sustaining motion for summary judgment 4/20/62 
Chickasaw, Dkt. 269 3 402 Opinion 11/17/54 $190,934.78 412 Dissenting opinion 1l/17/54 for land Final order dismissing 11/17/54 132 C.c.. 359 Reversed & remanded 6n/55 
7 64 Findings 1/23/59 79 Opinion 1/23/59 Interlocutory order 1/23/59 unnumbered Final order 7/17/59 149 C.c.. 839 Choctaw intervention in appeal denied 5113/60 
Chickasaw, Dk!. 270 20 247 	Opinion 1/16/69 Dismissed Order dismissing 1/16/69 
Chickasaw-Choctaw, see Choctaw-Chickasaw 
Chinook, Dkt. 234 6 177 	Findings -Title 4/16/58 $48,692..05 
208 	Opinion 4/16/58 for land Order 4/16/58 
24 	56 Opinion -Value 11/4170 64 Additional findings 1114170 88 Final award 11/4170 
196CC 	780 Affirmed 12/3171 
Chippewa, Bay Mills Community, Dkts 18-E, 18-F, and 18-R, see Bay Mills 
6/27/69 	$1,023,808..65
Chippewa, Bois Forte 21 254 	Opinion -Title 
Band, Dk!. 18-D 	257 Findings 6/27/69 for land 267 Order granting summary judgment 6/27/69 
34 	157 Opinion -Value 6/13174 172 Additional findings 6113174 188 Interlocutory order 6/13174 
39 	300 Opinion -Consideration & olI'sets 1/28177 311 Additional findings 1/28177 325 Final award 1/28177 


Through September 1, 1978-Continued 
Tribe Vol.. Page Decision 	Date Disposition Tribe 
Chippewa Cree, et af., 41 173 Order dismissing plaintiffs' petition 2/2178 Dismissed Chippi DkL. 221··A,see also Sioux, et al. I Dkt. 74; Fort Berthold, Chipp' Dkt. 350-B; & Chippewa, Missls Turtle Mountain Band, Superi Dkt. 113 (cont: 
Chippewa Cree, et al., Dkt. 221-B, see Chippewa, Little Shell Band, et al., Dkt. 191 
Chipp Chippewa Cree, et al., 32 152 Opinion 10/25m Transferred to et al. Dkt.221-C 155 Order denying plaintiffs' request for order Court of Claims Chipp
requiring defendant to amend its accounting Super report or file a supplemental accounting Missi! report, and defendant's request for order requiring plaintiffs to furnish a more definite statement 10/25m 
41 304 	Order certifying & transferring to Court of 5/8178 Claims 
Chippewa, Fon Du Lac, unnumbered Order dismissing petition 1124/49 Dismissed 
Bois Forte, and Grand 
Portage Bands, Dkt. 8 

Chippewa, Little Shell 33 469 Opinion .. Title 4/5174 Dismissed 
Band, et al., Dkt. 191, 2d 483 Findings 4/5174 2d Claim in Dkt. 
Claim; and Chippewa Cree, 509 Order dismissing 2d claim in Dkt. 191 & the 191 & all claims 
et al., Dkt. 221··B. claims in Dkt. 221-B 4/5174 in Dkt. 221-B 


Regarding Dkt. 191, see also Chippewa, Turtle Mountain Band, Dkt. 113; Chippewa, Red Lake Band, Dkt. 18-A; Sioux, Dkt. 74; & Fort 
Berthold, Dkt. 350..B 

Chippewa, Little Shell Band, et al., Dkt.. 221, see Chippewa, Turtle Mountain Band, Dkt 113; Sioux, Dkt. 74; & Fort Berthold, Dkt. 
350·B 

Chippewa, Minnesota, unnumbered Order dismissing petition 1124/49 Dismissed 
Dkt. 7 


Chippewa, Minnesota, unnumbered Order directing separation of causes of action Concluded by et aI., Dkt. 18 in the oIiginai petition and their refiling in separating out 
separate petitions 7113149 	all causes of action. They were refiled in Dkts.. 18··A through N, and 18..P through U. 
Chippewa, Minnesota, 8 781 Findings in Dkt. 18-B .. Title 6128/60 For land in Dkt. et al [on behalf of the 815 Opinion in Dkt. 18-B 6/28/60 18-B: Mississippi, and the Interlocutory order in Dkt. 18-B 6/28160 $1,671,26218 for Pillager and Lake161 C.C. 258 Reversed in part 4/5/63the MississippiWinnibigoshish Bands], 13 77 Opinion in Dkt. 18-B 2/5/64 Bands, and Dkts. 18-B and 18-N Order amending findings in Dkt. 18-B 2/5/64 $2,260,942.90 for 

Amended interlocutory order 2/5/64 the Pillager and 14 226 Additional findings in both Dkts. on value Lake and consideration 11120/64 Winibigoshish 
294 	Opinion 11120/64 Bands. Dkt. Interlocutory order with respect to Dkt. 18-B 18-N dismissed. & final order dismissing the petition in Dkt. 18-N 11/20/64 
15 466 	Additional findings on compromise settlement 
of offsets & entry of final judgment 7127/65 483 Opinion 7/27/65 573 Fmal judgment in DkL. 18-B 7/27/65 
Chippewa, Minnesota, 19 514 Findings -Title 10/10/68 $9,027,559..60 et al. [on behalf of the 525 Opinion10/10168 for land Chippewa Indians of the Order granting plaintiffs' motion for summary MiSSissippi and Lake judgment 10110/68 SupeIior], Dkt. 18-C 26 22 Opinion -Value 7121/71 
37 Additional findings 7/21/71 59 Interlocutory order 7/21/71 


Alphabetical Index of Indian Claims Commission Cases 



Through September 1, 1978-Continued 

Tribe  Vol.  Page  Decision  -----­ Date  Disposition  
Chippewa, Minnesota, et al. [on behalf of the Chippewa Indians of the MissIssippi and Lake Superior), DkL 18-C (conL)  32  192 201 215  Opinion -Offsets Additional findings Final award  1117173 1117173 11/7/73  
Chippewa, Minnesota, et al. [on behalf of the Chippewas of Lake Superior and the Mississippi], Dkt. 18-S  19 37 41  319 322 146 169 192 102 III 129  Findings -Title Opinion Order granting plaintiffs' motion for summary judgment Opinion -Value Ftndings Interlocutory order Opinion ., Payments on claim Additional findings Final award  8113/68 8/13/68 8/13/68 1/14/76 1/14176 1/14176 11/23/77 11/23/77 11123/77  For land: $5,677,418.. 88 for the Chippewas of Lake Superior, and $2,838,709.44 for the Chippewas ofthe Mississippi  
Chippewa, Minnesota, et at. [on behalf of the Chippewa Indians of the Mississippi and Lake Superior], Dkt. 18·T  19 25 28  341 352 146 157 177 10.3 111 116  Findings ., Title Opinion Order granting plaintiffs' motion for summary judgment Opinion -Value Additional findings Interlocutory order Opinion -Payments on the claim Additional findings Final award  8/20/68 8/20/68 8/20/68 3/30/71 3/30/71 3/30/71 5/31/72 5/31/72 5/31/72  $529.000 .00 for land  
Chippewa, Minnesota, et al. [on behalf of the Chippewas of Lake Superior], Dkt. 18-U  14 25 26 35 41  360 368 55 62 82 137 427 450 452 249 266 267 293  Findings -Title Opinion Order granting plaintiffs' motion for summary judgment Opinion -Value Additional findings Interlocutory order Order amending finding No, 1 Opinion on plaintiffs' motion fOl' ruling on defendant's demand for offsets Opinion dissenting in 'part Order ruling on legal Issues affecting offsets Opinion -Consideration & gratuitous offsets Dissenting opinion Additional findings Final award  12/8/64 12/8/64 12/8/64 3/24171 3/24/71 3/24/71 8/11/71 2113175 2113175 2113175 3/30178 3/30/78 3/30178 3/30178  $2,621.174.58 for land  
Chippewa, Minnesota, et al." Dkts. 19 & 188; and Chippewa, Red Lake Band, Dkts" 189-A, 19-B & 189..C  29 30  211 242 244 246 249 433 436  Opinion in Dkts. 19, 188, 189-A, & 189-C on motion for determination of legal issues Order ofDkts, 19 & 189·A dismissing certain claims & consolidating these dkts. for all purposes Order in Dkts. 188 & 189-C dismissing a claim in Dkt, 189-C for a Fifth Amendment taking of tribal land & consolidating Dkts. 188 & 189-C for all purposes Opinion in DkL 189-8 on defendant's motion for summary judgment and/or dismissal of Dkt. 189-B Order in DkL 189-·B dismissing a claim for Fifth Amendment taking of tribal land & consolidating Dkt. 189.. 8 wlDkts, 19 & 189··A for an purposes Opinion on plaintiffs' motion in the five dkts. to clarify record concerning consolidation of cases Order in the five dkts. clarifying record concerning consolidation of cases  11/29/72 11129172 11/29172 11/29/72 11/29/72 6/21/73 6/21/73  All five dkts" transferT'ed to Court of Claims  
35  


Alphabetical Index of Indian Claims Commission Cases 


Through September 1, 1978-Continued 
Tribe Vol. PageDedsion 	Date
----------------'--------------­
---, 
Chippewa, Minnesota, 35 98 et al., Dkts. 19 & 188; and Chippewa, Red Lake Band, Dkts, 189-A, 189-B III 
&  189-C (cont.)  112 113  
39  239  
Chippewa, Minnesota, et al., Dkt. 20  unnum bered  

Chippewa and Ottawa, see Ottawa and Chippewa 
Opinion in Dkts. 188 & 189-C on plaintiffs' motions for leave to amend the complaints & defendant's motion to strike Opinion dissenting in part Order in Dkt. 188 granting in part & denying in part plaintiffs' motion to amend complaint Order in Dkt. I89··C granting in part & denying in part plaintiffs' motion to amend complaint & denying defendant's motion to strike Order certifying & transferring all of these dkts. to the Court of Claims 
Order combining causes of action in Dkts. 19 & 20, & dismissing the petition in Dkt. 20 without pr~judice to prosecution as part of Dkt. 19 
11/7n4 
11/7/74 
11/7/74 
11/7/74 12/15/76 
11112/57 
Disposition 
Dismissed 
Chippewa, Pembina Band, et al., Dkt, 246, see Chippewa, Turtle Mountain Band, Dkt, 11.3; Fon Berthold, Dkt. 35()..B; and Sioux, Dkt. 74 
Chippewa, Pillager Bands 19 500 in Minnesota, Dkt. 144 511 
21 	1 8 
1.3 14 192C,C. 698 
32 	156 173 190 
Chippewa, Red Lake, 575 Pembina, and White Earth 584 Bands, et al., Dkt, 18-A 
unnumbered 
Chippewa, Red Lake, 6 Pembina, and White Earth Bands, et al., Dkt. 18··A; Chippewa, Turtle 9 Mountain Band, Dkt. 113; and Chippewa, Little Shell Band, et al., Dkt" 191 
9 
247 305 
315 336 
457 511 
unnumbered 
unnumbered 
164 C.C. 389 

unnumbered 

unnumbered 

Findings Opinion Order granting plaintiffs' motion for summary judgment Opinionon motion to reconsiderdateoftaking Additional findings Order denying motion for reconsideration Order admitting evidence Affirmed Opinion -Value & offsets Additional findings Final award 
Findings Opinion Conclusions of law & judgment dismissing plaintiffs' petition Order granting rehearing & vacating findings, opinion & conclusions of law & judgment of 9/17/51 
Findings -Title & value. Opinion Interlocutory order Additional findings -Consideration Opinion Order amending previous determination of consideration ~ Additional findings .. Gratuitous offsets Opinion Final award Order amending findings Amended final award Affirmed in part & reversed in part & remanded Order adding finding No. 69 Amended final award 
Chippewa, Red Lake Band, et al., Dkt. 18-G, see Chippewa, Saginaw, Dkt. 57 
Chippewa, Red Lake Band,  28  496  Order dismissing petition (5th item oforder in  
et al."  Dkt. 18-H, see also  Dkts" 15-C, 18-H, 29-A, & 71)  
Potawatomi, Prairie Band,  
et al., Dkt. 15-C  

Chippewa, Red Lake Band, et al., Dkt. 18-1, see Potawatomi, Citizen Band, et ai", Dkt. 217 Chippewa, Red Lake Band, et al., Dkt. 18-'J, see Chippewa, Saginaw, Dkt. 59 Chippewa, Red Lake Band, et al", Dkt. 18-K, see Chippewa, Saginaw, Dkt. 13,·F 
10/10/68 10/10/68 
10/10/68 5/20/69 5/20/69 5/20/69 5/20/69 7/15/70 10/25/73 10/25/73 10/25173 
9/17/51 
9/17/51 

9/17/51 
3/13/53 
5/21/58 5/21/58 5/21/58 6/15/62 6/15/62 
6/15/62 10/5/61 10/5/61 10/5/61 6/18/62 6/18/62 
1/24/64 4/24/64 4/24/64 
9/20/72 $405,293,06 
for land 
See below 
For land: $1,797,761.74 for Red Lake Band; and $237,127.82 for Pembina Band. 
Dkt. 18-A com­pleted" Dkts. 113 & 191 partially completed -see Chippewa, Turtle Mountain Band, Dkt. 11.3, below. 
Dismissed 
1'ril 
Chi 
Chi 
Chi 
Chi 
et t 
Chi 
et t 
Chi 
Chi 
1.3 
Chi 1.3­
Chi 
13.. 
Chi 1.,..( 
Chi 
13..: 
Chi [Stl Chi 
et a 
Dkl 
Hal' &1 Pot Mi( ven 
Nal 
Ott Wy wal and 341 
No int€ 
Dkr 
Ha: 29.. 



Alphabetical Index of Indian Claims Commission Cases 


Through September 1, 1978-Continued 
Tribe Vol. Page Decision 	Date 
Chippewa, Red Lake Band, et ai, Dkt. 18-L, see Chippewa, Saginaw, Dkt. l3-E 
Chippewa, Red Lake Band, et aI., Dkt. 18-M, see Chippewa, Saginaw, Dkt.13-G 
Chippewa, Red Lake Band, et aI., Dkt. 18-P, see Potawatomi, Citizen Band, et ai, Dkt. 216 
Chippewa, Red Lake Band, unnumbered Order dismissing petition 6/20/57 et al", Dkt. 18-Q 
Chippewa, Red Lake Band, 30 437 Opinion -Value 6/21/73 et aI., Dkt. 189 445 Findings 6/21/73 
450 Interlocutory order 6/21173 31 87 Order entry interlocutory award of 6/21/73 as a final award 8/9/73 
Chippewa, Red Lake Band, et ai, Dkts.. 189·A through C, see Chippewa, Minnesota, et al", Dkt. 19 
Chippewa, Saginaw, Dkt. unnumbered Order directing separation of causes of action 13 in the original petition & their refiling in
'4 
separate petitions 	7/13/49 
Chippewa, Saginaw, Dkt. unnumbered Order dismissing first claim 3/9/50 13-A 32 Order dismissing petition 10/17/73 
Chippewa, Saginaw, Dkt. unnumbered Order dismissing petition 3/9/50 13-B 
Chippewa, Saginaw, Dkt. unnumbered Order dismissing petition 2119/54 13-C 
Chippewa, Saginaw, Dkt, unnumbered Order dismissing petition 3/9/50 13-D 
30 6 Order denying motion of plaintiffs in Dkts, [Strong], DkL, 13-E; 27-E & 202 for leave to file brief in rebuttal 4/4/73 4/4/73 
Chippewa, Saginaw 
Chippewa, Red Lake Band, 30 8 Opinion -Title 
et aI., Dkt. 18-L; Delaware 23 Opinion concuning in part & dissenting in part 	4/4/73 4/4/73
Dkt. 27-E; Potawatomi, 	24 Findings 
Hannahville, et al. (Citizen 37 Final order dismissing claims in Dkts. 18-L & & Prairie Bands, & 
341-C, severing Dkt. 89, & interlocutory order Potawatomi of Indiana & in Dkts. l3-E, 27..E, 29-D, 133·A, 139, 202 & 4/4/73
Michigan, Inc., inter-	302 
venors), Dkt. 29-D; Six 39 Order denying motion of Stockbridge-Munsee Nations, et al., Dkt. 89; to intervene in Dkts" 27, 27-E & 202 4/4/73 Ottawa, Dkts 133-A & 302; 31 II Order denying extension ot' time to move for Wyandot, Dkt. 139; Dela~ rehearing in Dkt. 341·C 7/5/73 

ware, Absentee, Dkt. 202; 31 13 Order denying motion ofStockbridge-Munsee 7/5/73 and Seneca-Cayuga, Dkt. for rehearing 7/5/73 
341-C 31 359 Opinion on Seneca-Cayuga motions to rehear 9/19/73 372 Order admitting exhibIts & denying motions 9/19/73
Note: Regarding pleas in for rehearing intervention allowed in 207 c.C 958 Affirmed 5/30ns Dkt 29-D,see Potawatomi, 207 c.c. 959 Rehearing denied 10/lOns 
3/29n6
Hannahville, et ai, Dkt. 425 U,S 903 Certiorari denied 
29-D / 	42 264 Opinion -Value & consideration in Dkts. 
13-E, 27-E, 29-D, 133-A, 139, 202, & 302 8/10178 281 Additional findings 8/10/78 298 Interlocutory order 8/10/78 
42 346 Final award in Dkt 13-E 	8/17178 
42 348 Final award in Dkts 27-E & 202 8117/78 
42 350 Final award in Dkt 29-D 	8/17178 
42 352 Final award in Dkts, 133-A & 302 8/17178 
42 353 Final award in Dkt. 139 	8/17178 
Disposition 
Dismissed 
$1,859,306.87 
for land 
Concluded by 
separating out 
all causes of 
action. ThJ' 
were refile in 
Dkts, 13-A 
through N. 
Dismissed 
Dismissed 
Dismissed 
Dismissed 
Dkts. 18-L & 341-C dismissed. Dkt. 89, see dismissal under Chippewa, Saginaw, Dkt 13-G group, Appeal time running against final awards, shown below, in the other dkts., in this group, 
$563,624.. 21 for land $561,424.,21 for land $566,024.21 for land $563,624,21 for land $561,424.21 for land 
37 



I g
Alphabetical Index of Indian Claims Commission Cases £ 
Through September 1, 1978-Continued ,f i 

I 
[ 
Tribe Vol. Page 	Decision Date Disposition ! T 
!
Chippewa, Saginaw 30 337 Opinion -Title 5/23173 Dkts. 18··K & ~ C [Strong), Okt. 1.3-F; 356 Fmdings 5/23173 341-C dismissed. Potawatomi, PraiIie Band, 370 FinalorderdismissingclaimsinDkts.. 18..K & C
I
et al., Okt. 15-1; Chippewa, 34].·D, & severing Dkl.. 89, & interlocutory D Red Lake Band, et al., order in Dkts. 13-F, 15-1, 27, 29-G, 64-A, 
I
Dkt. 18-K; Delaware, I33-C, 141 & 308 5/23173 Dkt. 27; Potawatomi, 31 359 Opinion on Seneca-Cayuga motions fOl' C Hannahville, et al., Dkt.. rehearin~ 9119173 D 29-G; Shawnee, Dkt. 64-·A; 372 Order a mitting exhibits & denying motions 
Six Nations, et al., Dkt. for rehearing 9/19173 C 89; Ottawa, Dkt. 133-C; D Wyandot, Dkt. 141; R Potawatomi, Citizen Band, D etal.,Dkt. 308; and Seneca-Cayuga, Dkt. 341-0 
Chippewa, Saginaw unnumbered Order dismissing cause of action designated see below 
[Strong), Dkt. 13-G as "Second Claim" in plaintiffs' petition 3/9/50 

Chippewa, Saginaw 31 89 Opinion -Title 8/9173 Dkts. 13··G, 
[Strong), Dkt. IJ·G; 140 Concurring opinion 8/9173 18-M, 4Q-F & 89 
Potawatomi, Prairie Band, 141 Findings 8/9173 dismissed. 
et al., Okt. 15-E, 220 Final order dismissing claims in Dkts. 13-G, 
Chippewa, Red Lake Band, 18-M, & 40··F, & dismissing Dkt. 89, & 
et al., Okt. 18··M; Dela­interlocutory order in Okts. 15-E, 27-B, 29-C, 
ware,Okt. n·B; 64, 120, 130, 252, 335, & 138 8/9173 
Potawatomi, Hannah­31 222 Order admitting exhibits 8/9173 
ville, et al., Okt. 29··C; 207 C.C. 254 Commission's title determinations affirmed, 
Ottawa, Dkt. 40-F; but Commission directed on remand to 
Shawnee, Okt. 64; Six determine the percentage ofMiami recoveries 
Nations, et al., Okt.. 89; which should be given to the Wea 6/25775 
Wyandot, Dkt. 120; Miami 423 U.S.. 1015 Three petitions for certiorari denied 12/8n5 
oflndiana Dkt. 1.30; Miami 
of Oklahoma, Okl.. 252; 
Shawnee, Eastern, Okt. 
335; Delaware, Absentee, 
Dkt. 338; Shawnee, 
Eastern, Dkt. 338; 
Potawatomi, Citizen Band, 
et al., Okt.. 338; Peoria, 
et al., Okt. 338; Kickapoo 
of Oklahoma and Kansas, 
Dkt. 338; and Ottawa of 
Oklahoma et al., Dkt.. 338 

Chippewa, Saginaw, unnumbered 	Per curiam opinion on motion to file amended Dismissed 
Dkt. 13-H 	petition 717/52 
Order denying motion, but allowing addition 
of name of James Strong as a party plaintiff 717/52

2 380 Findings 	5/14/53 
390 	Opinion 5114153 Order dismissing two claims & reopening one for further hearing 5/14/53 
3 1 Supplemental findings 4/22/54 4 Opinion 4/22/54 Final order dismissing all claims 4/22/54 
Chippewa, Saginaw, unnumbered 	Per curiam opinion on motion to amend Dismissed 
Okt. 13-1 	petition ml52 Order denying motion but allowing addition of name of James Strong as party plaintiff 717/52
2 404 Findings 	5/14/53 
416 	Opinion 5/14/53 Conclusions of law & judgment dismissing petition 5/14/53 
Chippewa, Saginaw, 4 409 Findings 9119156 Dismissed Okt. 13-J 460 Opinion 9/19/56 Order dismissing petition 9/19/56 
Chippewa, Saginaw, Okl.. 13-K, see Potawatomi, Citizen Band, Dkt.. 216 
38 


Alphabetical Index of Indian Claims Commission Cases 



Through September 1, 1978-Continued 
1ribe Voi. Page Deci.sion 	Date Disposition 
Chippewa, Saginaw, Dkt. l3-L, see Potawatomi, Citizen Band, Dkt 217 
Chippewa, Saginaw, 6 414 Findings 6130/58 Dismissed 
Dkt. 13-M 442 Opinion 6/30/58 
Order dismissing petition 6/30/58 

Chippewa, Saginaw, 20 411 Order dismissing petition 4/9/69 Dismissed 
Dk! I3-N 

Chippewa, Saginaw, 22 504 Opinion -Title 4/1170 Ok! 18-0 
Dkt. 57; and Chippewa, 513 Findings 4/1170 dismissed., 
Red Lake Band, et ai., 525 Order dismissing petition in Dkt. 18-0 & 
Dk! 18-0 interlocutory order in Dkt. 57 4/1/70 

526 	Order admitting Commission exhibits in evidence 4/1/70 
Chippewa, Saginaw, 30 295 Opinion -Value & consideration 5/16/73 $8,117,60800 
Dk! 57 308 Additional findings 5116/73 for land 
336 Second interlocutory order 5/16m 
31 67 Final award 8/117.3 

Chippewa, Saginaw, 30 388 Opinion -Title 6/13/73 Dismissed: Dkts Dk! 59; Chippewa, Red 404 Concuning opinion 6/13/73 18,·J & 140, & Lake Band, et ai.., Dk! 405 Findings 6/1317.3 plea in inter­18-1; Potawatomi, 417 Final order dismissing the claims in Dkts. vention in Dkt.. Hannahville, et ai., 18-1 & 140, & interlocutory order in Dkts. 59, 29-E of the (Potawatomi of the Huron, 29-E, & 133-B 6/13/73 Potawatomi of et ai., Citizen and Prairie 31 408 Order denying motion for rehearing 9/1917.3 the Huron, et ai. Bands, and Potawatomi of 207 Cc.. %0 Affirmed, except as to allowance of plea in Indiana and Michigan, Inc., intervention in Dk! 29-E of the Potawatomi Appeal time intervenors), Dkt. 29-E; of the Huron, et ai.., dismissal of said plea running against Ottawa, Dkt. 133-B; and directed 5/30/75 final awards Wyandot, Ok! 140 C.c.. Rehearing denied 10/10175 shown below in 
41 327 Opinion -Value & consideration 5/11/78 Dkts. 29-E, 59, Note: Regarding pleas in 351 Additional findings 5111/78 & IH·B. intervention allowed in 380 Interlocutory order 5111/78 Dkt. 29-E, see Potawatomi, 42 160 Final award in Dk! 29-E 6/22/78 $2,292,000.,00 Hannahville, et ai" Dkt. for land 29-E 42 162 Final award in Okt. 59 6/22/78 $3,479,308.00 
for land 42 163 Final award in Ok!. 133-B 6/22/78 $579,308,00 for land 
Chippewa, Turtle 19 271 Opinion in dkts on left & Dkts. 74 & 350-B & C Pending Mountain Band, Okt. 113; on motion to receive Fort Berthold exhibit 7/3/68 Chippewa, Pembina Band, Order in same dkts, admitting additional Dkt. 246; Chippewa, Little evidence 7/3/68 Shell Band, et ai.., Dk! 2.3 315 Opinion in dkts, on left & Fort Berthold Dkts 191; and Chippewa, Little 350-B & C on land title issues 6/30/70 Shell Band, et ai" 326 Findings in same dkts, 6130/70 Dk! 221 338 Order in same dkts. 6/30170 
25 179 	Opinion in dkts, on left & Fort Berthold Dkts 350-B & C, Sioux Okt.. 74, & Chippewa Cree Dkt.. 221-A on overlapping claims 3/30/71 
190 Findings in same dkts.. 3/30/71 212 Final order dismissing claim in Dkt.. 350-B & interlocutory order in Dkt.. 350-C 3/30/71 
26 326 	Order grantmg rehearing in same dkts. in which opinion & findings of 3/30/71 were entered 10113/71 
26 336 Opinion in same dkts, receiving opinion & findings of 3/30/71 11/11/71 ,354 Amendments to prior findings on title & additional findings 11/11/71 360 Order amending findings & interlocutory order of 6/30/71 11/11/71 363 Order amending findings & order of 3/30/71 11/11/71 
29 141 	Order in dkts. on left & Fort Berthold Dkts. 350-B & 350-C denying request for modifica­tion of record on appeal 11/9/72 
39 

Alphabetical Index of Indian Claims Commission Cases 
Through September 1, 1978-Continued 

Tri
Tribe Vol.. Page 	Decision Dale Di'.spasi/ion 
Chippewa, Turtle 203 c.c. 426 	Modified & affirmed 1/23/74 Ch Mountain Band, Dkt. 113; 36 69 Order in dkts.. on left denying defendant's 
Me 
Chippewa, Pembina Band, motion to determine issues in respect to date Dkt. 246; Chippewa, Little of extinguishment of aboridinal title 3/19/75 ChShell Band, et af, Dkt. 191; and Chippewa, Little Shell Band, el al.., Dkt. 221 (cont.) 
Ch OJ.;Chippewa, Turtle Mountain Band, Dkt. 113, see Chippewa, Red Lake, Pembina, and White Earth Bands, el al., Dkt. 18-A 
Co
Chiricahua Apache, see Apache, Fort Sill Cil
Chitina, Alaska, Natives 27 133 Order granting defendant's motion to Dismissed 
of, Dkt. 187 dismiss claim 3/15172 

Cl: Choctaw, Dkt. 16; and 291 Statement & findings 7/14/50 $2,587,835.47 for 
CI:
Chickasaw, Dkt. 23 304 	Opinion 7/14/50 land in Dkt. 16, 
Conclusions of law & judgment in Dkt. 16 7/14/50 and $902,008..11 

CO!
Conclusions of law & judgment in Dkt. 23 7/14/50 for land in 
356 	Per curiam opinion on motion to amend & Dkt.23 1~ correct findings 10/10/50 ~ Motion denied 10/10/50 
121 CC. 41 	Affirmed 12/4/51 
Choctaw and Chickasaw, 178 	Opinion 10/28/49 Dismissed 
I
Dkt. 39 Order dismissing petition Cc
I
Choctaw, Dkt. 50 unnumbered 	Order dismissing petition 4/10/51 Dismissed 
I 
Tr Choctaw, Dkt. 51 182 Opinion 3/2/50 Dismissed 
• Ce
Order dismissing petition 3/2/50120 C.C 734 Affirmed 10/2/51 
Ce
343 u..S. 955 	Certiorari denied 5/26/52 Tr 
Choctaw Indians East 3 288 Findings 8/16/54 Dismissed of the Mississippi, Dkt. 52 293 Opinion 8/16/54 Interlocutory order 8/16/54unnumbered Order denying application for leave to inter·· 
I
vene by the Choctaw Nation lI24/55unnumbered Order denying defendant's motions for rehearing lI24/55 
i 
unnumbered 	Conclusions of law & final award 2/3/55 
133 CC. 643 	Reversed Commission's final award & denial of intervention to Choctaw Nation, & re-~ manded with direction to permit intervention ; of the Choctaw Nation & to enter judgment dismissing the petition lI31/56 I 
352 US. 841 	Certiorari denied 10/8/56 
unnumbered 	Order in compliance with direction of the Court of Claims allowing intervention of the Chl?'7taw Nation, & dismissing plaintiffs' 
I 
petitIOn 	217/57 
0
Choctaw, Dkt. 55 553 	Findings 6/I1/51 Dismissed 
C(
562 	Opinion 6/I1/51 
I 
DI
Conclusions of Jaw & judgment dismissing f petition 6/11/51 ,•
128 CC  195  Affirmed  5/4/54  
Choctaw, Dkt. 56  341  Opinion on defendant's motion for summary judgment of dismissal Order dismissing petition  7/14/50 7/14/50  Dismissed  
Choctaw, Dkt. 103  2 133 CC. 352 u..C.  581 597 207 825  Findings Opinion Final order dismissing petition Affirmed Certiorari denied  3/8/54 3/8/54 3/8/54 Il18/55 10/8/56  Dismissed  
40  

C. 
Cc 
D' 
C. 
C. 
D 

21 ELL 
Li



Alphabetical Index of Indian Claims Commission Cases 
Through September 1, 1978-Continued 

Tribe Vol. Page Decision Date Disposition 
Choctaw Indians, unnumbered Order dismissing petition 2112157 Dismissed 
McGahey Band, Dk!. 201 
Choctaw, Dkt. 249 32 286 Opinion 1216173 $250,000.00 
301 Order granting motions for summary for accounting 
judgment dismissing 1st & 4th claims 12/6n3 
38 441 Findings -Compromise settlement 7/l5n6 
455 Final award 7/l5n6 
Choctaw, Ridaught Band, 19 367 Order dismissing case 8/22168 Dismissed 
Dkt.346 
Cochiti, see Pueblo de Cochiti 
Citizen Band, see Potawatomi, Citizen Band 
Clallam, see S'Klallam Tlibe, Dkt. 134 
Clatsop, see Chinook, Dkt. 234; and Tillamook, Dkt. 240 
Coeur D'Alene, Dkt. 81 4 1 Findings -Title 8126155 $4,342,778.03 
13 Opinion 8/26155 for land 
Interlocutory order 8/26155 
6 1 Additional findings -Value & consideration 1213157 
38 Opinion 1213/57
Second interlocutory order 12/3/57 
unnumbered Final judgment entered on joint motion of 
parties 516158 
Colorado River Indian unnumbered Order dismissing petitions in both dkts. 4/23/65 The two cases Tribes, Dkts. 185 & 283-A dismissed 
Colorado River Indians, see California Indians, Dkts. 31 & 37 (6 Ind CI. Comm. 86, 666); and Mojave, Dkts. 283 & 295 
Colorado River Indian Tribes, et al., Dk!. 283-B  36 36 37 39 42  217 230 231 233 425 428 40 42 71 202  Opinion on plaintiffs motion to compel a propel' accounting and for determination of points of law Concurring opinion Interlocutory order Order denying defendant's motion to dismiss Opinion on plaintiffs' motion for rehearing Order vacating order denying defendant's motion to dismiss, & denying said motion without prejudice Order denymg defendant's motion for rehearing Opinion on plaintiffs' motions for determina­tion of issues of law, for partial summary judgment, & for supplemental accounting, & defendant's motion to determine scope of supplemental accounting Interlocutory order Order certifying & transfening to Court of Claims  9/23n6 9/23n6 71l3n8 7/lons7/lons7/lons7/lOn58/28ns 8128ns 10/30n5  Transfen'ed to Court of Claims  
Colville Reservation, Confederated Tribes, Dkts. 177, 181-A & 181-B  18  531 545  Findings ­Compromise settlement Pel' curiam opinion Final judgment in Dkts. 18l-·A & 181-B & order dismissing petition in Dkt. 177  9nJ67 9nJ67 9nJ67  $3,500,000.00 for land in Dkts. 181-A & B; Dkt. 177 dismissed  
Colville Reservation, Confederated Tribes, Dkt. 178  23  493 496  Opinion ­Compromise settlement Findings on compromise settlement Final judgment on claims for accounting through 6/30/5 I, and order seveling claims for accounting from and after 7/1/51, and designating same as Dk! 178-A  9/17n0 9/17n0 91I7nO  $5,540,598.00 for accounting through 6130/51  
Colville Reservation, Confederated Tribes, Dkt 178··A  39  122 126  Opinion on defendant's motion to dismiss Order to show cause why claim should not be dismissed  10/22n6 10/22n6  Transferred to Court of Claims  
41  



Alphabetical Index of Indian Claims Commission Cases 

Through September 1, 1978-Continued 
Tribe Vol. Page 	Decision Date Disposition 
Colville Reservation, 39 487 	Opinion 2/24m 
Confederated Tribes, 490 Order denying defendant's motion to dismiss 2/24m 
Dkt. 178-A 39 491 Order certifying & transftming to Court of 
(cont.) Claims 2/24m 

Colville Reservation, 2 179 	Per curiam opinion on defendant's motion to $1,119,071.78 
Confederated Tribes dismiss 5/27/52 for accounting as the representatives Order denying motion to dismiss 5/27/52 through 6/30/51 of the Joseph Band of the unnumbered Order granting motion by Nez Perce Tribe of Nez Perce Tribe, Dkt. 179 Idaho to intervene as a party plaintiff 2/26/69 
23 	39 Per curiam opinion -Compromise 4/29170 43 Findings on compromise settlement 4/29170 68 Final judgment on claim for accounting 
through 6/30/51, and order severing claim of Nez Perce Tribe of Idaho for an accounting from and after 7/1/51, and assigning said claim Dkt. 179-A 4/29170 
Colville Reservation, 4 151 Findings -Title 2/29/56 $1,000,000.00 
Confederated Tribes, 187 Opinion 2/29/56 for land 
Dkt. 181 Interlocutory order 2/29/56 

7 187 Additional findings -Value 3/5/59 203 Opinion 3/5/59 Second interlocutory order 3/5/59 8 420 Findings -Compromise settlement of offsets 3/1/60 429 Opinion 3/1/60 Final judgment 3/1/60 
Colville Reservation, 36 183 Opinion in Dkt. 181··C on defendant's motion Dkt. 181-C, 
Confederated Tribes, for summary judgment or determination of see below 
Dkts. 181·,C & 181-D points of law 6!13n5 

201 Order granting partial summary judgment, & conclusions of law 6/13/75 39 159 Opinion in Dkt. 181·,C on plaintiffs' motion for leave to file amended petition 11/18/76 
166 	Order in Dkts" 181-C & D granting leave to file amended petition setting forth claims arising iiom construction & operation of Grand Coulee Dam, severing such claims ii'om Dkt. 181-C, establishing Dkt, 181-D with the amended petition filed therein 11/18/76 
Colville Reservation, 42 200 Order separating claims arising from removal Mineral claims Confederated Tribes, of minerals from plaintiffs' aboriginal lands transfened to Dkt. 181-C and designating these claims as Dkt. 181-C Court of Claims. 
(Mineral Claims) & certifying & transferring Claims arising them to the Court of Claims 7/13/78 from depletion of fisheries pending. 
Colville Reservation, 25 99 Opinion -Liability 3/26nI $725,000.00 Confederated Tribes, 115 Concurring opinion 3/26nI for land et al., on behalf of 118 Opinion dissenting in part 3126nI (Wallowa the Joseph Band of the 125 Opinion concurring in part & dissenting Reservation) Nez Perce Tribe, Dkt. 186 in part 3/26nI 
128 Findings 3/26nI 144 Interlocutory order 3/26nI 35 74 Findings -Compromise settlement 10/31/74 Final award 10/31/74 
Colville Reservation, Confederated Tribes as representatives of the Palouse Band, et ai" Dkt 222, see Yakima, Dkt. 161 
Colville Reservation, Confederated Tribes as representatives of the Moses Band, et ai" Dkt. 224, lee Yakima, Dkt. 161 
Comanche, see Kiowa, Comanche and Apache 
Confederated Salish and Kootenai Tribes of the Flathead Reservation, Montana, see Flathead 
Coos Bay, DkL 265 unnumbered 	Order sustaining motion for summary Dismissed judgment & dismissing peititon 7/11/52 



Cowlitz, Dkt. 218  21 25 I99CC, 30  143 152 442 453 462 464 523 129 143  Opinion ­Title Findings Interlocutory order Opinion on rehearing Amendments to & additional findings Order amending findings & interlocutory order Order admitting exhibit Affirmed Findings -Compromise settlement Final award  6/25/69 6/25/69 6/25/69 6/23/71 6/23171 6/23171 6/23171 10/13/72 4/12/73 4/12/73  $1,550,000.00 for land  
Cree, see Chippewa Cree  
Creek, Loyal, Dk!. I  118CC  122 195 207 221 373  Opinion Order overruling motion to dismiss Findings Opinion Dissenting opinion Conclusions of law & judgment dismissing petition Reversed & remanded  5/6/49 5/6/49 7/14/50 7/14/50 7/14/50 7/14/50 2/6/51  $600,000.,00 for tribal property  
342 US, 813 unnumbered  Certiorari denied Final determination & judgment  10/8151 10/19/51  
Creek Nation, Plaintiff; Creek Nation, East of the Mississippi, Intervenors, Dkt. 21. see also Yuchi (Euchee), Dkt. 172  546 122 C.C. 380 ,344 U.S 856 2 66 98 unnumbered 3 455 463 unnumbered 4 140 142 6 691 718 unnumbered  Per curiam opinion Order denying motion of Creek Nation, East, to intervene Reversed Certiorari denied Findings -Liability Opinion Interlocutory order Order allowmg intervention Additional findings Opinion Interlocutory order Order granting rehearing Additional findings Opinion Interlocutory order Supplemental findings -Value Opinion Interlocutog order Order on 0 sets as per stipulation & final award  6/4/51 6/4/51 5/6/52 10/20/52 4/22/52 4/22/52 4/22/52 12/21/53 5/5/55 5/5/55 5/5/55 12/29/55 12/29/55 12/29/55 12/29/55 11/19/58 11/19/58 11/19/58 9/28/59  $3,913,000,,00 for land  
unnumbered II 53 91  Order granting rehearing as to value Findings _. Value rehearing Opinion Interlocutory order Final award  1/15/60 9/10/62 9/10/62 9/10/62 9/10/62  
unnumbered 165 CC. 479 379 U.S, 846 379 U.s 918  Order denying motion ofplaintiff& intervenor for rehearing Affirmed Certiorari denied Rehearing denied  12/14/62 4/17/64 10/12/64 11/16/64  
Creek Freedmen Association, Dk!. 25  156  Opinion Order dismissing petition  8/4/49 8/4/49  Dismissed  
Creek, Dkt. 166  19  Order dismissing petition  2/13/68  Dismissed  
Creek, Dkt. 167  12 168 CC. 18 19  54 483 434 451 127  Opinion on defendant's motion for summary judgment Order dismissing petition Reversed & remanded Findings ­Liability Opinion Interlocutory order Opinion on defendant's motion for entry of judgment Order deny ing motion  2/28/63 2/28/63 12/11/64 7/6/67 7/6/67 7/6/67 4/24/68 4/24/68  $50,000.00 for land  
43  



Alphabetical Index of Indian Claims Commission Cases 

Through September 	1, 1978-Continued 
Tribe _____~~__ Page _ 	Dedsion Date 
Creek, Dkt. 167 21 278 Opinion -Dates of taking & value 6/30/69 (cont.) 291 Additional findings 6/30/69 294 Interlocutory order 6/30/69 192 C.C. 425 Affirmed inpart; reversed in part & remanded 6/12/70 25 340 Additional findings -Compromise settlement 5/26nt 351 Final award 5/26/71 
Creek, Dkt. 168 12 123 	Opinion on defendant's motion for summary judgment . ,3/18/63 Order granting motion for summary judgment & dismissing petition 3/18/63 
168 C.C. 	512 Affirmed 12/11164 
Creek, Dkt. 169 6 230 	Opinion on defendant's motion for summary 
judgment 	4/28/58 
234 	Dissenting opinion 4/28/58 Order denyin~ motion for summary judgment 4/28/58 
24 	238 Opinion -Liability 12/14/70 253 Findings 12/14/70 269 Interlocutory order 12114/70 
39 	383 Opinion -' Value 2117n7 409 Additional findings , 2/17n7 434 Interlocutory order 2/17n7 
40 90 Final award 4/6n7 216C.C. Affirmed 4/4n8 
Creek, Dkt. 272 26 	410 Opinion -Title 12/8nt 458 Findings 1218/71 489 Interlocutory order 12/8/71 
201 CC. 	386 Affirmed 4/13173 
40 	175 Opinion -Value 6/15n7 190 DIssenting opinion 6/15n7 196 Additional findings 6/15n7 223 Interlocutory order and award subject to 
offsets 	6/15n7 
41 	20 Opinion on plaintiffs motion for rehearing 9/28n7 24 Concurring opinion 9/28n7 25 Order denying rehearing 9/28n7 
Creek, Dkt. 273 17 700 	Per curiam opinion on defendant's motions for summary judgment 2/28/67 Order denying motions for summary judgment 2/28/67 
23 484 Opinion on motions to determine Issues 9/9/70 489 Order on motions 9/9/70 24 97 Order denying defendant's motion for 
rehearing 11/25/70 196 C.C. 639 Reversed 12/lOnt 406 U.S. 929 Certiorari denied 5/15/72 
29 	519 Findings -Compromise 3/14173 529 Final award 3/14/73 
Creek, Dkt. 274 20 44 Findings 11/5/68 48 Opinion 11/5/68 Final order dismissing claim 1115/68 
Creek Nation of 23 1 Opinion -Title 4/15/70 Oklahoma, Dkt. 275 16 Findings 4/15/70 37 Interlocutory order4/15/70 
24 47,3 Opinion on defendant's motion for rehearing 3/3/71 481 Order denying rehearing 3/3/71 28 353 Findings -Compromise settlement 8/23/72 365 Final award 8/23/72 
Creek'Nation, Dkt. 276 16 	431 Findings -Consideration & value 12/15/65 461 Opinion 12115/65 
Interlocutory order 12/15/65 unnumbered Order amending findings 30 & 32 12/21165 unnumbered Final award (offsets postponed to other cas~s) 8/17/66 
1
Disposition 

C 
Dismissed 

C 11 
$1,115,70620 
for land. 
Petition for 
certiorari pend­
ing before 
Supreme Court. 

$400,000,,00 
for land 
Dismissed 
$1,346,000,,00 for land 
$1,037,414,,62 



Alphabetical Index of Indian Claims Commission C~ses Through September 1, 1978-.. Continued . 
Tribe  Vol.  Page  Decision  ._-------_.  Date  Disposition  
Creek Nation, Dkt. 277  17  700  Per curiam opinion on defendant's motions in  TransfeIl'ed to  
Dkts., 277 & 273 for summary judgment Order denying motions for summary judgment  2/28/67 2/28/67  Court of Claims  
31  499  Order in Dkl. 247 (Re: valuation dates &  
measure of damages that also applies in  
40  231  Dkt 277) Opinion on plaintiff"s offer of proof  3/17n6 6/22m  
42  234 202  Order rejecting offer of proof Order certifying & transferring to Court of  6/22m  
Claims  7/13/78  
Creek Nation East of  22  10  Opinion on plaintiff's motion to amend  Dismissed  
the Mississippi, Dkt 280  petition & defendant's alternative motions to dismiss in part or consolidate in part  11/13/69  
17  Order denying plaintiff's' motion to amend &  
granting defendant's alternative motion to  
dismiss in part [to extent of overlap of award  
194C.C, 197 c.c.  86 350  area in Seminole Dkts 73 & 151] Affirmed in part, reversed in part & remanded Seminole cases (Dkts., 73 & 151) remanded  11/13/69 2/19171  
with directive to consolidate them with  
unnumbered  Dkt 280 to resolve overlap~ing claims Order consolidating cases ( eminole Dkts  2/18/72  
73 & 151 wlDkt 280) & setting them for trial  
on issues of aboriginal title to overlap area  3/15/72  
31  Opinion (in Dkts. 73 & 151, & 280) on Creek  
motion to amend petition & Seminole motion to dismiss & for summary judgment  7/5/73  
9  Order denying motion to amend petition &  
holding in abeyance ruling on motion for  
203 CC,  754  summary judgment Appeal by Creek Nation East dismissed  7/5/73 2/11/74  
35  7  Order dismissing claims under Dkt 280 & severing Dkl 280 from consolidation wlDkts, 73 & 151  9/13/74  
35  117  Order denying motion of Creek Nation East  
for reconsideration  11/13/74  
207 CC  1009  Commission's order affirmed & appeal by Creeks East dismissed  6/27n5  
207 CC.  1009  Rehearing denied  10/3/75  
Creek Nation East of  19  438  Order disinissing petition  9/10/68  Dismissed  
the Mississippi, Dkt. 281  
Creek, Dkt 292  7  117  Findings  2/18/59  Dismissed  
127  Opinion  2/18/59  
Final order dismissing all claims  2/18/59  
152 C.C  747  Affirmed  3/1/61  
370 U.S  157  Affirmed  6/4/62  
371 US  854  Rehearing denied  10/8/62  
Crow, DkL 54  3  147  Findings & explanatory statement  6/11/54  $10,242,984.70  
155 179  Opinion Concurring opinion  6/11/54 6/11/54  for land  
Order overruling second, third, & fourth  
defenses & striking same from defendant's  
6 98 112 unnumbered 151 C.C. 281  answer Additional findings Opinion Interlocutory order Final judgment Affirmed in part & reversed in part  6/11/54 2/12/58 2/12/58 2/12/58 12/8/58 11/2/60  
366 u..s.  924  Certiorari denied  5/15/61  
unnumbered  Amended final judgment  5/29/61  

Delaware, Dkt 27, see Chippewa, Saginaw, Dkt. 13-F 
Delaware, Dkt 27-A, and 2 253 Findings -Right to sue 10/23/52 $435,873.86 Delaware, Absentee, 262 Opinion 10/23/52 for land DkL 241 Interlocutory order 10/23/52 




i 
~:

Alphabetical Index of Indian Claims Commission Cases Through September 1, 1978-Continued ! ! t 
I 

Tribe 	Vol.
-----_. 
Delaware, Dkt. 27..A, and 2 
Delaware, Absentee, 
Dkt.241 
(cont) 

130 CC. .3 
8 
21 
192 CC. 26 
Delaware, Dkt. 27-B, 41 and Delaware, Absentee, Dkt. 338, see prior 41 decisions under Chippewa, Saginaw, Dkt. J3-G 
Page Decision 
536 	Findings 
549 	Opinion 
Order dismissing petitions in Dkts. 27-A 
&241 

782 Affirmed in part & reversed in part 
622 Additional findings -Size of area 
634 Opinion 

Order 
150 Supplemental findings -Value 
178 Opinion 

Interlocutory order 
18 Opinion -Offsets 
30 Additional findings 
38 Final order & award 

385 Affirmed in part; reversed in part & remanded 387 Opinion on remand 397 Additional findings 408 Final award 
146 	Order denying as moot plaintiffs' motion 
re settlement 
147 Findings--Compromise settlement 
158 Final award 

Delaware, Dkt. 27·C unnumbered Order dismissing petition Delaware, Dkt. 27·D unnumbered Order dismissing petition Delaware, Dkt. 27-E, see Chippewa, Saginaw, Dkt. I3-E Delaware, Absentee, 21 344 Opinion 
Dkt. 72, & Delaware, 350 Findings Dkt.298 369 Final award 
Delaware, Absentee, et al.., Dkt. 202, see Chippewa, Saginaw, Dkt. I3..E Delaware, Absentee, Dkt. 241, see Delaware, Dkt. 27-A Delaware, Absentee, et al.., Dkt. 289, see Peoria, et al., Dkt. 289 Delaware, Dkt. 298, see Delaware, Absentee, Dkt. 72 
Delaware, Absentee, 5 Dkt. 337, see prior decisions affecting Dkt. 337 9 under Miami of Oklahoma, Dkt. 67 
12 
164 C.C. 
C.C. 
489 	Findings 
Interlocutory order & conclusions of law 346 Findings --Consideration 353 Opinion 
Interlocutory order 404 Additional findings 417 Opinion 
Final judgment 749 Order denyinseverance of part of judgment
t
Order (unpub ished) allowing withdrawal of appeal 
Delaware, Absentee, Dkt. 338, see Chippewa, Saginaw, Dkt. !J·G; & Delaware, Dkt. 27-B 
D'lwamish, Dkt. 109 
Re allocation of considera­tion under Point Elliott Treaty, Dkt. 109 & 10 other dkts.. , see 13 Ind. CI. Comm. 583, 591 (1964) unnumbered Findings .-Title 
5  117  
132  
7  725  
739  
10  442  
447  

Opinion 
Interlocutory order Findings -Value 
Opinion 
Second interlocutory order 
Findings --Offsets settled 
Opinion 
Final judgment 
Amended final judgment [no change in 
amount] 
i ~ 
Date Disposition 

1 
1/21/54 1/21/54 r E 
If II 1121/54 
2/8/55 	S '" 
8/23/55 C 8/23/55 8/23/55 12/4/59 12/4/59 12/4/59 
J.

6/4/59 
6/4/59 i 
6/4/59 
6/12170 
11/24171 
11/24171 
11/24171 

I
I
•
$1,199,763.20 
12/15177 for land 
12/16177 
12/16177 

12/26/68 Dismissed 
8/31/54 Dismissed 
9/10/69 $9,194,364.99 
9/10/69 for land & 
9/10/69 breach of land 

sale agreement 
9/20/57 $1,627,244.64 9/20/57 for land 6/22/61 6/22/61 6/22/61 8/5/63 8/5/63 8/5/63 1/31/64 
6/12/64 
3/25/57 $62,000.00 3/25/57 for land 3/25/57 7/6/59 7/6/59 7/6/59 7/20/62 7/20/62 7/20/62 

12/11/63 12/11/63 



Alphabetical Index of Indian Claims Commission Cases 

Through September 1, 1978-Continued 
Tribe Vol. Page 	Decision Date Disposition
,-----" 

Emigrant New York 5 553 Per curiam opinion on motions to dismiss & $1,313,472.65 
Indians, Oneida of to add Oneida Tribe of Wisconsin & for land 
Wisconsin, and Stockbridge-Munsee Community as parties 
Stockbridge-Munsee plaintiff 11/1/57 
Community, Dkt. 75 Interlocutory order denying motion to dismiss 

& adding Oneida Tribe of Wisconsin & Stockbridge-Munsee Community as parties plaintiff 11/1/57 
5 560 Findings· Title 11/1/57 607 Opinion 11/1/57 Interlocutory order 11/1/57 II 336 Supplemental findings -Value 10/8/62 359 Opinion 10/8/62 Interlocutory order 10/8/62 13 560 Findings • Offsets 8/11/64 
566 	Opinion concluding with summary of computations 8/11/64 Order correcting computations 8/11/64 Amended interlocutory order 8/11/64 Final award 8/11164 
I77C.C. 263 Affirmed 	10/14/66 
Euchee, see Yuchi 
Flathead Reservation, 8 40 Findings -Title 8/3/59 $4,431,622.,18 
Confederated Salish and 60 Opinion 8/3/59 for land 
Kootenai Tribes, Dkt. 61 Interlocutory order 8/3/59 

16 I Additional findings -Value 9/29/65 41 Opinion 9/29/65 Second interlocutory order 9/29/65 
17 297 Findings on com!el'Omise settlement 8/1/66Interlocutory or er 8/1166 176 C.C. 1387 Appeal dismissed 8/4/66 Final judgment 8/5/66 
Flathead Reservation, unnumbered Order dismissing 6th cause of action (on Dismissed 
Confederated Salish and plaintiffs' motion) 9/11164 
Kootenai Tribes, Dkt. 156 unnumbered Order dismissing 1st, 2d, 3d, 4th, & 7th causes 

of action (on defendant's motion having plaintiffs' consent) 8113/69 24 470 Order dismissing 8th cause of action (at plaintiffs' request), & closing Dkt. 156 2/24nI 
Forest County Potawatomi Community, see Potawatomi, Hannahville, et ai, 
Fort Belknap Indian II 479 Findings 11120/62 Dismissed Community, Dkt. 250 520 Opinion 11120/62 Final order dismissing petition 11120/62 C.CO Order (unpublished) dismissing appeal (No. 5-63) 4/28/65 
Fort Belknap Indian Community, Dkt. 25o.A, see Blackfeet and Gros Ventre Tribes, Dkt. 279-C 
Fort Berthold, Three 3 444 	Opinion on defendant's motion for summary Dismissed (all 
Affiliated Tribes, Dkt. 350 	judgment as to all claims 3/24/55 claims except the Order dismissing 1st claim & oven'uling first were motion for summary judgment as to other severed out & re­claims 3/24/55 filed in Dkts., 
unnumbered Order severing causes of action 1114/58 35().,A through unnumbered Order dismissing petition 12/10/68 H) 
Fort Berthold, Three 16 521 Pel' curiam opinion in Dkt. 35o.H on motion to $1,850,000..00 Affiliated Tribes, Dkts. dismiss 2/18/66 for settlement of: 35o.A, E & H Order denying motion to dismiss 2/18/66 Land claim in 
20 I Findings in Dkt. 35o.A -Value 10/29/68 Dkt.35o.A; 37 Opinion 10/29/68 Agency buildings Interlocutory award, Dkt. 35o.A 10/29/68 claim in Dkt. 21 92 Findings"'Compromisesettlement ofallclaims 35o.E; and in Dkts .. 35o.A, E & H 6/18/69 Buffalo claim 109 Final judgment in Dkts 35o.A, E & H 6/18/69 in 35o.H 
47 




f 


Alphabetical Index of Indian Claims Commission Cases !! ~ Through September 1, 1978-Continued I 
Tribe 
Fort Berthold, Three Affiliated Tribes, Dkts. 35O-B, C, & D; see also Chippewa, Turtle Mountain Band, Dkt. 113 
Fort Berthold, Three Affiliated Tribes, Dkt. 350-F 
Fort Berthold, Three Affiliated Tribes, Dkt.3S0-G 
Vol 
15 
19 23 
23 
23 
25 
25 
26 
26 
26 
29 

203 CG. 35 37 
16 
17 182 C.C. 28 
28 204 CC. 
CC. 419 U.S. 
36 
37 
Page Decision 
577 	Findings in Dkts, 3So-B & C, 74, 332,·A & 221-A 
599 	Opinion on Sioux (Dkt.. 74) motion for 
determination of certain title matters 
Order defining boundary of the area 
recognized by FOIt Laramie Treaty of 
September 17, 18S1, as belonging to the 
"Sioux or Dacotah Nation" 

271 	Opinion in Dkts" 3S0-B & C, et ai, on motion to receive Fort Berthold exhibit Order admitting additional evidence 
236 	Opinion in Dkt.. 350-D on motions for summary judgment of dismissal or for an order defining Issues 
243 Order denying motions 315 Opinion in Dkts 350-B & C, et 01,,·· Chippewa 
area & overlap 
326 Findings 
338 Order 
419 Opinion in Dkts, 3S0·B & C, et 01 -Sioux 

overlap 
428 Findings 
440 Interlocutory order 
179 Opinion in Dkts. 3S0-B & C, et 01 on title 

issuesincludingaboriginal area ofthe Mandan, Hidatsa, & ArikaraTribes, predecessors ofthe Fort Berthold Tribes 
190 Findings 212 Final order dismissing claim in Dkt 3So-B & interlocutory or der in Dkt. 350-C 326 Order granting Fort Berthold motion for 
rehearing 
336 Opinion in Dkts" 350·B & C, et 01 
254 Amendments to prior findings & additional 

findings 
360 Order amending findings & interlocutory 

order of 6/30170 
363 Order amending findings & order of 3/30171 
141 Order in Dkts, 350-B & C, et ai, denying 

refbuest for modification of record on appeal 426 A umed decisions of 6/30170 & 3/30/71 269 Opinion in Dkt. 350-C • Date of taking 279 Additional findings 286 Order amending findings & admitting exhibits S02 Findings in Dkts. 3So-C & D • Compromise 
settlement 
518 Final award in Dkt 350-C 
SI9 Final award in Dkt, 350-D 

341 Findings .-Title 371 Opinion Interlocutory order 614 Order denying defendant's motion to COrT'ect 
findings S43 Affirmed in part & reversed in part 264 Opinion -Value & title remand 304 Supplemental findings 331 Order amending, vacating, or affirming 
findings & interlocutory order 352 Final award 831 Affirmed 
Rehearins denied 901 Certioran denied 
116 	Opinion on plaintiffs' motions for supplemental accounting & partial summary judgment & defendant's motions to strike & to dismiss certain accounting exceptions 
166 	Interlocutory order 
129 	Opinion on response to orders to show cause why certain accounting exceptions should not be dismissed 
f; 
,i ~ 
Date Dispmition

---_. 	T 
,
Dkt. 350-B 

I Fe
8/27/65 dismissed. On 

A
settlement of 

[ D.
8/27/65 land claims: 

,i' (c
$6,500,000.00 in Dkt. 3So-C; & $3,200,000.00 in 
8/27/65 Dkt. 350-D. 
f 
7/3/68 
7/3/68 
I 

F( F(6/17170 
M
6/17170 
6/30170 F(6/30170 

F(
6/30170 

M 
8/26170 
8/26170 
8/26170 

3/30/71 
3/30/71 
3/30/71 
10/13/71 
11/ll/71 
11/11/71 
ll/1l/71 
ll/1l!7l 
ll/9172 
1/23174 
1/2/75 
1/2/75 
1/2/75 

3/17176 
3/17176 
3/17176 

11/4/65 $9,101,912.37 
11/4/65 for land 
11/4/65 

2/21/67 
2/16/68 
8/2172 
8/2/72 
8/2/72 
8/23/72 
3/29/74 
5/31/74 
10/21/74 

TransferTed to 
Court of Claims 

5/29/75 
5/29175 
12/18/75 



Alphabetical Index of Indian Claims Commission Cases 

Through September 1, 1978-Continued 
Tribe Vol. Page Decision 	Date Disposition 
Fort Berthold, Three 136 Interlocutory order 12118175 
Affiliated Tribes, 39 435 Opinion 2/17m
Dkt.350-G 445 Order granting partial summary judgment & 
(conL) supplemental accounting in part 21I7m 

39 	446 Opinion 21I7m 483 Order denying plaintiffS' motion for summary 
judgment 2/17m 39 484 Order dismissing exception 18 2/17m 39 486 Order certifying & transfelIing case to Court 
of Claims 	21I7m 
Fort Peck Indians of 3 78 Findings 6/8/54 Dismissed 
Fort Peck Reservation, 133 Opinion 6/8154 
Montana, DkL 183 Final order dismissing petition 6/8/54

132 CC. 373 Affirmed 	6n155 
Fort Peck Indians of 28 171 Opinion on plaintiffs' motion for proper & Transferred to Fort Peck Reservation, more detailed accounting 6/14/72 Court of Claims Montana, Dkt, 184 202 Order 6/14/72 
34 	24 Opinion -Accounting exceptions 5/3174 66 Concurring opinion 5/3/74 67 Opinion dissenting in part 5/3/74 77 Order 513/74 
207 C.C. 1045 	Reversed on an interest issue; appeal dismissed as premature on two aspects; remanded for further pl'Oceedings regarding pl'Oductivity of tribal funds 10/30175 
39 239 	Order certifying & transfen'ing case to Court of Claims 12/15176 
Foit Sill Apache, see Apache, Fort Sill 
Gambell, Native Village of, 27 140 Order granting motion to dismiss claim 3/22/72 Dismissed 
Dkt.284 

Goshute, see Shoshone, Goshute, Dkts. 326-B & J 
Grande Ronde Community, Oregon, see Tillamook Band, Okt. 240 
Gros Ventre (formerly known as the Hidatsa), see Blackfeet; Fort Belknap; and Fort Berthold 
Hannahville Indian Community, see Potawatomi, Hannahville 
Havasupai, Okt. 91 20 210 Opinion -Title (Navajo, OkL 299, overlap $1,240,000.00 included) 12/30/68 for land 222 Findings 12/30/68 Interlocutory order 12/30/68 21 324 Additional findings -Compromise settlement 8/6/69 341 Final judgment 
Hoh, see Quileute 
Hopi, Okt. 196 23 277 Opinion· Title (Navajo, Okt 229, overlap $5,000,000,,00 
included) 6/29170 for settlement 290 Findings 6/29170 of claims for 312 Interlocutory order 6/29170 compensation 
unnumbered Order granting rehearing as to dates of taking for land, rent, & of aboriginal lands 4/28nI for a general 31 16 Opinion 7/9/73 accounting 37 Order denying Hopi motion to amend findings 7/9173 
33 72 	Order denying Hopi motion that the Commission heal' further argument on liability phase of counts 5 through 8, amend findin~s and orders relating thereto, and dispose oft e liability phase of said counts 1/23174 
33 74 	Opinion relating to claims for accounting in count 9 of plaintiff's petition 1/23174 

AlphabetIcal Index of Indian Claims Commission Cases 
Through September 1, 1978-Continued 


Vol. PageTribe 
Hopi, Dkt. 196 81 (cont.) 
205 c.c.. 828 36 I 
6 
207 C.C. 968 
208 Cc.. 1027 208 C.C. 1028 429 U.S. 1030 39 204 
223 
Hopi Village of unnumbered 
Shungopavi, Dkt. 210 
Hualapai, Dkt. 70 unnumbered 
Hualapai, Dkt. 90 II 	447 458 
17 	456 500 
18 	382 
Hualapai, Dkts 90 & 122 19 	161 177 
Iowa, Dkt. 79 2 	167 
unnumbered 
16 	568 
Iowa, Dkt. 79-A 20 	308 320 335 
unnumbered 
21 15 
Iowa, Sac and Fox, 6 464 
Dkt. 135 496 

Decision 
Order denying without prejudice defendant's motion to dismiss claim for an accountin~ beyond 8/13/46; granting defendant's motIOn for a more definite statement; & directing plaintiff to file a statement alleging with particularity those wrongful acts which occuned prior to 8/13/46 & continued thereafter Motion to dismiss appeal denied Opinion on plaintitrs motion for leave to file out of time Its more definite statement of continuing accounting wrongs Order granting plaintitrs motion for leave to me out of time & for other purposes Order staying proceedings relating to count 9 of Dkt. 196, general accounting claim Affirmed & remanded Rehearing denied Petition for certiorari dismissed Findings & conclusions ofJaw on compromise settlement Final award 
Order dismissing petition 
Order dismissing petition 
Findings -Title 
Opinion 
Interlocutory order 
Findings -Value 
Opinion 
Second interlocutory order 
Opinion 
Order denying motion for rehearing & 
modification of findings 

Additional findings -Compromise settlement Opinion Final judgment 
Opinion on defendant's motion for summary judgment Order denying motion Order requiring defendant to render complete 
accountin~ 
Order settmg out, inter alia, findings on stipulated facts; entering interlocutory judgment on claims for fail' value of 4,798 acres excluded from the reservation created for the Iowa Nation pursuant to Treaty of September 17, 1836, & for the fail' value of an additional 94,451,25 acres of trust lands sold by defendant, severing these land claims from Dkt. 79 & giving them Dkt. No 79-A; & entering final judgment on the remaining claims in Dkt. 79 
Opinion -Value & damages Findings Interlocutory order Order denying defendant's motion to reserve oft'sets Final award 
Findings -Title Opinion Interlocutory order Iov Dk (co 
1123/74 
9113/74 
3/13/75 
'-­
\-.
3113/75 
6/20/75 
1130/76 
3/26/76 
12/7/76 

12/2/76 
12/2/76 



5/31/57 	Dismissed 
4/28/61 	Dismissed 
11119/62 see below 
11119/62 
11/19/62 
12/21/66 
12/21/66 
12/21/66 
5/11/67 

5/11167 
6/18/68 $2,950,000.00 
6/18/68 for land in Dkt. 
6/18/68 90 & treshass 

damage c aims in 
Dkt, 122 

Land claims 
5/27/52 severed out & 
5/27/52 assigned Dkt. 

179-A. 
7/28/52 	$11,394.67 on 
accounting 
claims. 

2/28/66 
2/17/69 $1,377,207.27 2/17/69 for land 2/17/69 
5/21/69 5/21/69 
7/2/58 $633,193.77 for 7/2/58 Iowa land. 7/2/58 $965,560.39 for 
Sac and Fox 



Alphabetical Index of Indian Claims Commission Cases 

Through September 1, 1978-Continued 
Tribe Vol. Page Decilion 	Date Disposition
---------------"-_. 	-------­
Iowa, Sac and Fox, 12 487 Findings .. Value 8/29/63 
Okt. 135 519 Opinion 8/29/63 
(cont.) Second interlocutory order 8/29/63 

15 	248 Additional findings -Offsets 517165 263 Opinion 517165 
Final award 517165 179C.C 8 Affirmed in part & reversed in part 3/17/67 389 US.. 900 Certiorari denied 10/16/67 
22 	232 Opinion .. Title remand 12/10/69 331 Order on remand & amending findings & 
opinion 12/10/69 195 C.C 365 Affirmed 7/14/71 404 U.S 1017 Certiorari denied 1/1On2 
Iowa, Omaha, Sac and 5 316 Findings .. Title 7/31/57 For land in Okt. Fox, Ok! 138; and Otoe 351 Opinion 7131/57 138: and Missouria, Ok! II-A; 367 Interlocutory order 7/31/57 $1,372,267..50 to and Sac and Fox, unnumbered Order modifying determinations & the Iowa; Ok! 232; and Iowa, interlocutory order of 7/31/57 & denying $1,750,000..00 to Okt. 339 motions for rehearing, etc., except to extent the Omaha; 
of amendments made by this order 11/29/57 $1,096,533.42 to 
13 25 	Per curiam opinion on determination of the the Sac and article 2 line, 1825 Prairie Oe Chien Treaty, Fox. For land in often referred to as the "Sioux-Sac & Fox Okt. II-A: line" or "Yankton line" 11/18/59 $1,750,000..00 to 
unnumbered 	Order in Okts 138, II-A & 332..A amending the Otoe and finding 2, Okts.. II..A & 138 (re Yankton Sioux Missouri. Sac boundary) 11/25/59 and Fox petition 
13 272 	Additional findings on compromise settlement in Okt. 232 of Otoe & Missouria claims in Okt. II-A, & dismissed by Omaha claims in Ok!.. 138 4/14/64 order of 3/2/65. 
289 	Opinion 4/14/64 Final judgment in Okt. II-A 4/14/64 Final judgment in Ok! 138 for the Omaha plaintiffs 4/14/64 
15 42 	Additional findings in Okts 138, II-A, & 232 on compromise settlement of Sac & Fox claims 3/2/65 
62 	Opinion 3/2/65 Finaljudgment on Sac & Fox claim in Okt. 138 and order dismissing Sac & Fox petition in Ok!.. 232 3/2/65 
15 172 	Findings in Okts. 138 & 339 on compl'Omise settlement of Iowa claims 3/22/65 
191 	Opinion 3/22/65 Final judgment on Iowa claims in Ok! 138 & Iowa petition in order dismissing Iowa petition in Okt. 339 3/22/65 Okt.339
c 

175 CC. 564 	Affirmed order of 11/25/59 re Yankton Sioux dismissed by boundary (the Yankton Sioux appealed from order of 3/22/65 the order) 5113/66 
Iowa, Sac and Fox, 7 98 Findings -Title 2/9/59 For land: Ok! 153 105 Opinion 2/9/59 $2,783,700..00 to Interlocutory order 2/9/59 the Iowa; 
22 	385 Opinion -Value 2/4170 $10,601,282.66 395 Findings 2/4/70 to the Sac and 415 Final award 2/4170 Fox 
Iowa, Sac and Fox, 5 367 Findings .. Title (in Dk!.. i58) 8/2/57 For land in Okt. Okts. 158,209, & 231 438 Opinion 8/2/57 158: Interlocutory order 8/2/57 $1,340,435..00 to 10 404 Findings -Title (in Okt 209 6/1/62 the Iowa; Interlocutory order 6/1/62 $3,530,578.21 to 20 439 Opinion -Value & consideration (in Okts.. the Sac and 
158, 209, & 231) 5/12/69 Fox. For land in 458 Findings 5/12/69 Okt. 209: 505 Final awards: to the Iowa & Sac & Fox in $168,555..00 to 
Okts 158 & 231. & the Iowa in Okt 209, & the Iowa.. For order dismissing the Sac & Fox claim in land in Ok!.. 231: Okt 209 5/12/69 $286,516..40 to 



Alphabetical Index of Indian Claims Commission Cases 
Through September 1, 1978-Continued 

Vol. Page 	DecisionTribe 
Iowa, Sac and Fox, 22 439 Order in Dkts. 158,209 & 231 denying Dkts. 158,209, & 231 plaintiffs' motion to rehear, & for other $943,799.79 to purposes 2/11nO the Sac and Fox.
(cont..) 
196 C.C. 548 	Remanded with order to supply more The Sac and Fox specific findings & reasonings as to valuation claim in Dkt. 209 of the tracts involved in Dkts. 158,209, & was dismissed. 231 (only the Sac & Fox appealed) 11/12/71 
32 256 Opinion 	11123173 
270 	Final awards on remand to the Sac & Fox in Dkts, 158 & 231 in the same amounts awarded on 5/12/69, & order dismissing the Sac & Fox claim in Dkt. 209 11123/73 
206 CC. 897 Affirmed 4/25n5 206 CC. 898 Rehearin~ denied 6127n5 423 US, 1016 Certioran denied 1218n5 
Iowa, Dkt. 339, see Iowa, 15 172 Order dismissing petition 3/22165 Dismissed Omaha, Sac and Fox, Dkt. 1.38 
Isleta, Pueblo de, see Pueblo de Isleta, Dkt. 211 
Jemez, Pueblo de, see Pueblo de Zia, et ai", Dkt. 1.37 
Jicarilla Apache, see Apache, Jicarilla, Dkts. 22-A and 22-K 
Kalapuya, et al." Dkt" 238 unnumbered Order dismissing petition 	11/17/54 ',Dismissed 
Kalispel, see Pend d'Oreille 
Kansas, see Kaw 
Karankewa, see Apache, Dkt. 22-C, and Caddo, Dkt. 226, in which the Karankewa of Texas petitioned for intervention 
Kaskaskia, see Peoria, Dkts. 65, 66, 313, & 338 
Kaw, Dkts 33,34, & 35  2  348 608 617 1.34 144  Per curiam opinion Order ovenuling defendant's demurrer to plaintiffs' evidence Findings .. Value and consideration Opinion Interlocutory order Additional findings -Offsets Per curiam opinion  9/26150 9/26150 9/17/51 9/17/51 9/17/51 5/15/52 5/15152  For land in Dkt.33: $1,600,220,,02; For land in Dkt.35: $798,000.00; Dkt. 34 was dismissed"  
Conclusions of law & final awards on causes  
125 CC.  628  ofaction in Dkts. 33 & 35, & order dismissing petition in Dkt, 34 Remanded for Commission's determination  5/15/52  
of questions as to which group ofIndians was entitled to represent the Kaw Tribe in the  
prosecution of the claims in Dkts, 33, 34, & 35 & which group of attorneys was entitled to prosecute such claims  7/13153  
3  180 1%  Findings on remanded questions Opinion ruling on remanded questions  6124/54 6/24/54  
130 C.c.  209 693  Separate opinion Order denying motion of Arthur B. Honnold  6/24/54  
for leave to intervene in the appeals & file a  
motion to dismiss  2116155  
130 c.c. C.C  695  Order dismissing Kaw appeals Order dismissing cross appeals by the  2123/55  
United States  3/2/55  
Kaw, Dkt. 36  unnumbered  Order approving plaintiffs' dismissal of their  Dismissed by  
cause in Dkt. 36, & dismissing said cause, effective 2/14150  2114/50  order dated 2/12/52 that  
related back &  
became effective  
as of 2/14/50  
52  

Kc Ki Ki Ki 



Alphabetical Index of Indian Claims Commission Cases 
Through September 1, 1978-Continued 

Tribe Vol. Page	Decision Date Disposition
---_._----------=----	--------'-----
Kaw, Dkt. 38 unnumbered 	Order dismissing petition 12/19/55 Dismissed 
Kent Schagthticoke, see Schagthticoke, of Kent, Connecticut, Dkt. 112 
Kickapoo, Dkt. 145 16 675 Findings on accounting claim 4/21/66 On Government's Conclusions of law & final judgment 4/21/66 accountinf $11,511.5 
Kickapoo, Dkt. 193 19 37 Findings -Compromise settlement 2/29/68 $540,000.00 
54 Pel' curiam opinion 2/29/68 for land 
Final judgment 2/29/68 

Kickapoo, Dkt. 194 unnumbered 	Order dismissing petition in Dkt. 194 & Dismissed 
directing that the claims pleaded therein be 
included by amendment in the petition in 
Dkt. 315 3/22/57 

Kickapoo, Dkt. 315, see Potawatomi, Prairie Band, et aI.., Dkt. 15-D, et ai,,; Miami, Oklahoma, Dkt. 67, et al.,; and Peoria (Piankeshaw), Dkt. 99, et al. 
Kickapoo, Dkt. 316 10 320 Findings 5/4/62 $771,441.26 
333 Opinion 5/4/62 for land 
Interlocutory order 5/4/62 

15 628 Additional findings -Offsets 8/31/65 650 Opinion 8/31/65 Interlocutory order 8/31/65 178C.C. 527 Affirmed in part, reversed in part & remanded 2/17/67 18 550 Supplemental findings 9/29/67 553 Opinion 9/29/67 Final award 9/29/67 
Kickapoo, Dkt, 316-A 23 	189 Opinion -Value 6/10170 $125,209.61 197 Findings 6/10170 for land 218 Interlocutory order 6/10/70 
23 	509 Final award 9/24170 
Kickapoo, Dkt. 317 5 180 Findings 6/4/57 $340,250,00 198 Opinion 6/4/57 for land Interlocutory order 6/4/57 10 271 Findings in Dkts. 317 & 314-C (Peoria) re 
Kickapoo & Wea lands 3/2/62 279 Opinion 3/2/62 Interlocutory order 3/2/62 
unnumbered Order amending findings & interlocutory order of 3/2/62 3/10/64 174 C,C, 550 Affirmed 2/18/66 
22 	186 Opinion· Value 12/5/69 197 Supplemental findings 12/5/69 223 Interlocutory order 12/5/69 
22 	443 Final award 2/11170 
Kickapoo, Dkt" 318 21 	39 Findings· Compromise settlement 6/11/69 $273,250.00 49 Final judgment 6/11169 for land 
Kickapoo, Dkt. 338, see Chippewa, Dkt I3·G, et al. 
Kikiallus, Dkt. 263 7 456 Findings ., Title 4/13/59 $6,026.69 469 Opinion 4113/59 for land Interlocutory order 4/13/59 13 583 Findings on allocation of consideration under 
Point Elliott Treaty 8113/64 591 Opinion 8113/64 Order 8113/64 25 83 Opinion· Value 3/26/71 88 Findings 3/26171 98 Interlocutory order 3/26171 
28 	159 Opinion -Gratuitous offsets 6/m2 163 Additional findings 6/7172 167 Final award 617172 

) 

Alphabetical Index of Indian Claims Commission Cases 
Through September 1, 1978-Continued  
Tribe  Vol.  Page  Decision  Date  Disposition---­ 
Kiowa, Comanche and Apache, Dk1. 32  4 5 5 143 C.C. 143 C.C. 359 U,S.  5i}5 520 95 III 72 96 297 534 545 934  Findings -Right to recover Opinion Interlocutory order Additional findings -Value Opinion Second interlocutory order Additional findings -Offsets Opinion Final determination Opinion -Offsets reconsidered Amended final order Affirmed Motion for reconsideration denied Certiorari denied  4/9/51 4/9/51 4/9/51 12113/55 12/13/55 12/13/55 3112/57 3/12/57 3/12157 7/18/57 7/18/57 7/16/58 10/8/58 3/9/59  $2,067,166,00 for land  
Kiowa, Comanche and Apache, Dk1. 257  12 24 26 202 C.C. C.C. 416 U.S.  439 470 405 101 132 134 136 29 936  Findings -Jicarilla Apache (Dkt. 22-A) overlap Opinion Interlocutory order Order granting Wichita's motion to intervene Opinion on plaintiffs' motion for summary judgment of recognized title & defendant's motion to dismiss claim for failure to prosecute Order admitting exhibits Order granting motion for summary judgment of recognized title Order denying motion to dismiss Reversed as to summary judgment of recognized title & order allowing Wichita intervention Rehearin¥ denied Certioran denied  8/26/63 8/26/63 8/26/63 2/10171 8/9171 8/9171 8/9171 8/9171 6/20/73 9/28/73 4/15174  see disposition below  
Kiowa, Comanche and Apache, Dkts. 257 & 259-A, see prior decisions in Dkt. 259-A, below  34  263 286 287  Findings on compromise settlement Order of consolidation & final award Order denying motion to consolidate Dkt. 257 with Dkts, 22-C & 226  7/17/74 7/17/74 7/17/74  $35,060,000,,00 for land in Dkts. 257 & 259-A  
Kiowa, Comanche and Apache, Dkts, 258 & 259  18  640 658  Findings on compromise settlement Opinion Fmal judgment  1/29/68 1129/68 1129/68  $6,000,000.00 for settlement of accounting claims  

Kiowa, Comanche and Apache, Dkt. 259-A  22  482 503  Opinion on defendant's motion to dismiss or require plaintiffs to make petition more definite & certain Order denying motion to dismiss or in the  4/1170  Disposed of by final award cited above under Kiowa,  
alternative to make more definite & certain  4/1170  Comanche and  
24  393  Opinion on defendant's motion for summary  Apache, Dkts.  
29  401 476  judgment Order denying motion for summary judgment Order on motions requiring, inter alia, that  2/10171 2/10171  257 & 259-A  
defendant supplement its accounting for  
certain rentals  2/28/73  
Klamath, Modoc and  2  684  Opinion on plaintiffs procedural motion  4/9/54  $2,500,000.00  
Yahooskin Band of Snake Indians, Dkt. 100,  unnumbered  Order overruling plaintiffs motion Order in Dkts. 100 & 87 (Paiute, Northern)  4/9/54  for land  
see reference to this case in opinions of 1120/58 &  dismissing a claim in Dk1. 87 on behalf of the Yahooskin Band & granting said band the  
10/6/58 under California  right to maintain in Dkt. 100 its claim for the  
Indians, Dkts. 31 & 37  same land  5/19/55  
13  41 73  Findings -Compromise settlement Opinion  1/31/64 1/31/64  
Final judgment  1/31/64  
Klamath, Modoc and  20  522  Opinion -Value  5/14/69  $4,162,992,80  
Yahooskin Band of Snake Indians, Dkt. IOQ-A  21  528 543 343  Findings Conclusions oflaw & first interlocutory order Final judgment  5/14/69 5/14/69 9/2/69  for land  


Alphabetical Index of Indian Claims Commission Cases 


Through September 1, 1978-Continued 
Tribe Vol. Page 	Decision Date Disposition 
Klamath, Modoc and 37 Order severing certain claims from Dkt. For settlement Yahooskin Band of Snake lOO··B-1 & designating them as Dkt. 100-C 10/31175 of accounting Indians, Dkts. lOO-B-1 & 37 2 Findings on compromise settlement IOI3l17S $18,000,000..00 100-C 38 Final award in Dkt. 100-C 10/3117S in Dkt. lOO-B-I; 
39 Order approving stipulation in Dkt. lOO-B-1 10131175 $785,000.00 in 39 262 Findings in Dkt. lOO-B-1 on compromise Dkt 100-C settlement \121m 292 Final award in Dkt. lOO-B-1 \121m 
Klamath, Modoc and 34 209 Opinion 6126174 
Yahooskin Band of Snake 218 Order denying motion to strike testimony of 
Indians, Dkt. lOO-B-2 certain defense witnesses 6126174 

Kootenai, see Flathead Reservation, Confederated Salish and Kootenai 
Kootenai of Idaho, 5 456 Findings -Title 8/9/57 $425,000.00 
Dkt. 154 464 Opinion 8/9/57 for land 
Interlocutory order 8/9/57 

8 504 Findings .. Compromise settlement 4/25/60 510 Opinion 4/25/60 Final judgment 4/25/60 
Laguna, see Pueblo of Laguna 
La Jolla, see California Indians, Dkts. 80, 8o-A, B & C 
Lake, see Colville Reservation, Confederated Tribes 
Lemhi, see Shoshone, Lemhi, Dkt. 326-1 
Little Shell, see Chippewa, Little Shell 
Lummi, Dkt. 110 2 	Per curiam opinion \130/52 $57,00000 
Order denying defense of res judicata \130/52 for land unnumbered Order consolidating cases 5/I2IS3 5 525 Findings .. Title 10/30/57 
543 	Opinion 10/30/57 Interlocutory order 10/30/57 
10 286 Additional findings -Value 3/2/62 294 Opinion 3/2/62 Second interlocutory order 3/2/62 
13 583 Findings -Consideration 8/13/64 591 Opinion 8/13/64 Order 8/13/64 16 526 Findings -Defendant's motion for judgment 2/18/66 
530 	Opinion 2/18/66 Final order granting defendant's motion and dismissing petition 2/18/66 
181 C.c. 	753 Reversed & remanded 12/15/67 
21 	408 Opinion -Value remand 10/8/69 416 Order amending findings 10/8/69 418 Order vacating final order, & interlocutory 
award 	10/8/69 
24 	21 Opinion .. Gratuitous offsets 10/22170 24 Additional findings 10/22170 33 Final judgment 10/22170 
197C.C 	780 Affirmed 3/17/72 
Makah, Dkt. 60 466 	Per curiam opinion \14/51 Dismissed Order on defendant's motion that plaintiff be required to separately state & number its several causes of actIOn \l4/S1 
7 477 Findings 4/15/59 509 Opinion 4/15/59 Final order dismissing claims 4/15/59 lSI c.c. 701 Affirmed 12/1/60 365 US 879 Certiorari denied 4/17/61 
5/20170 171 Findings 5120170
Makah, Dkt. 6o-A 23 16S 	Opinion -Title 
176 	Order 5/20170 



Alphabetical Index of Indian Claims Commission Cases 
Through September 1, 1978-Continued 

Tribe  Vol.  Page  Decision  Date  Disposition  
Makah, Okt. 6Q-A (cont,)  195 C.C. 30  539 220 232  Affirmed Opinion on motion for leave to Order denying motion  amend petition 6/14/71 4/30m 4/30m  
34  14  Opinion on plaintiff's amendeleave to amend petition, motiin the alternative for rehearin d motion for on to clarify or  
23  open record for additional evOrder granting amended motiamend petition, motion to reo g, & motion to idence on for leave to pen record for 5/1/74 n~ motion to  
34  23a  additional evidence, & denyiclarify or for rehearing, & setOrder denying plaintiff's motisummary judgment & defend ting hearing on for partial ant's motion to  
23b  strike Order denying defendant's m otion to dismiss 5/1/74 5/1/74  
2,3c  Order denying plaintiff's moti on to permit 5/1/74  
34  406  inspection of defendant's appOpinion on defendant's motio raisal report n for partial  
412  summary judgment Order denying motion for par tial summary 8/14/74  
413  judgment Order granting defendant's mtwo stages, & plaintiff's moti otion for trial in on for 8/14/74  
39  88  continuance Opinion  8/14/74 10/15/76  
97  Additional findings  10/15/76  
107  Interlocutory order & award  on claim for  
40  131  breach of promise to supply fOpinion on plaintiff's motion  ishing gear for rehearing 10/15/76 5/4/77  
137  Order granting motion for reh earing 5/4/77  

Malheur Reservation, see Snake or Piute Indians of former Malheur Reservation, Oregon, Okt. 17 Mandan, see Fort Berthold, Okts 350, 35Q-A through H Maricopa, see Pima-Maricopa 
Maricopa-Ak Chin Reservation Indians, Okt. 235 
19  80  Order dismissing second & third causes  
21 31  423 384  Order dismissing fourth & fifth causes Opinion  
37  396 407 193  Findings Order dismissing first cause Opinion  
201  Order granting in part plaintiff's motion for  
42  202  supplemental accounting & for other purposes Order certifying & transferring to Court of  
Claims  

McGahey Band, see Choctaw Indians, McGahey Band, Okt. 201 Menominee, Ok!.. 129 unnumbered Order dismissing petition Mescalero Apache, see Apache, Okts. 22-B, C, & G Methow, see Colville Reservation Confederated Tribes Miami, Indiana, Dkt. 124, see Miami, Oklahoma, Okt. 67, et al. Miami, Indiana, Okt. 124-A, see Miami, Oklahoma, Okt. 251 Miami, Indiana, Dkt. 124-B, see Potawatomi, Citizen Band, Dkt. 128, et al. Miami, Indiana, Okt. 124··C, see Miami, Oklahoma, Dkt, 255 Miami, Indiana, Dkts. 124-D, E & P, see Miami, Oklahoma, Dkt. 256 
Miami, Indiana, Okt. 124..G  unnumbered  Order dismissing complaint  
Miami, Indiana, Okt. 124-H  33 33  49 129  Order to show cause why petition should not be dismissed Order dismissing petition  

3/7/68 Transfeued to 10/15/69 Court of Claims 
9/19m 9/19m9/19m 
1/14/76 
1/14/76 
7/13/78 
4/24/52 Dismissed 
4/24/58 Dismissed 
Dismissed 1/9/74 
2/14n4 
Tr 
M' 
M; 
M 01 (:M (PI 
(D th' 
Oi Pr 
(PI 01 
Dl Ci 
M 
M 01 
In 



Alphabetical Index of Indian Claims Commission Cases 

Through September 1, 1978-Continued 

Tribe	Vol. Page Decision Date Disposition
,---------_._----=------­
Miami, Indiana, Dkt. 130, see Chippewa, Saginaw, Dkt. 13-G, et at 
Miami, Indiana, Dkt. 131, see Miami, Oklahoma, Dkt. 253, et aI" 
Miami, Oklahoma, 2 617 Findings" Overlapping claims 3/26/54 $4,647,467,,67 Dkt. 67, & Dkts. 124 635 Opinion 3/26/54 for land to the (Miami, Indiana), 314 Interlocutory order 3/26/54 Miami plaintiffs (peoria, Weal, & 337 4 346 Supplemental findings -Value 9/17/56 in Dkts. 67 & (Delaware) consolidated 398 Opinion 9/17/56 124, as repre­therewith; and intervenors: Interlocutory order 9/17/56 sentatives of the Dkts. 15-0 (potawatomi, 5 494 Findings -Offsets 9/30/57 Miami Tribe of Prairie), Dkt 29·,B, 500 Opinion 9/30/57 1818 (potawatomi, Hannahville), 517 Final award 9/30/57 Dkt, 89 (Six Nations), 146CC 421 Affirmed on ti tie & offsets; remanded on value 7/13/59 Dkt. 311 (Potawatomi, 9 1 Amended & additional findings 6/30/60 Citizen), & 315 (Delaware) 3 Opinion 6/30/60 
19 	Dissenting opinion 6/30/60 Conclusions of law & final award 6/30/60 
9 108 	Additional dissenting opinion 4/3/61 Order denying defendant's motion for rehearing (one Commissioner dissenting) 4/3/61 
159 C.C 593 Affirmed 	11116/62 
Miami, Oklahoma, Dkt. 76 9 580 Findings 1112l/61 Dismissed 
586 Opinion 11/21/61 
Order dismissing each count in the petition 11121161 

Miami, Oklahoma, 6 513 Findings 7/14/58 For land & 
Dkt, 251; & Miami, 552 Opinion 7/14/58 accrued interest: 
Indiana, Dkt. 124-A Order dismissing petitions in Dkts, 251 & $349,193.59 to 

124-A 7/14/58 Miami of 150 c.c. 725 Affirmed in part, & reversed in part 7/15/60 Oklahoma, Dkt. 366 U,S.. 924 Certiorari denied 5/15/61 251; $64,738,80 
unnumbered Final judgment 5/31/61 	to Miami of Indiana, Dkt. 124-A 
Miami, Oklahoma, 20 236 Opinion on compromise settlement 1/9/69 $10,000.00 fOf' Dkt.251-A 239 Findings on compromise settlement1/9/69settlement of an 
Final judgment 1/9/69 	accounting claim & some miscel­laneous damage claims 
Miami, Oklahoma, Dkt. 252, see Chippewa, Saginaw, Dkt. 13-G 

Miami, Oklahoma, 5 180 Findings -Title 6/4/57 Dismissed: 
Dkt. 253, consolidated 198 Opinion 6/4/57 Potawatomi, 
with Miami, Indiana, Interlocutory order in Dkts. 253, 131, & 314; Prairie Band, 
Dkt. 131; Peoria, Wea, order dismissing the petitions in Dkts. 15-H & et al., Dkt 15-H; 
Dkt, 314; Potawatomi, 29-F; & order removing from this consolidated & Potawatomi, 
Prairie Band, Dkt. 15-H; group Dkts" 307 & 317 6/4/57 Hannahville, 
Kickapoo, Dkt. 317; et at, Dkt, 29-F. 
Potawatomi, Citizen Band, Miami, 
Dkt, 307; & Potawatomi, Oklahoma, Dkt. 
Hannahville, et al., 253, et at., con­
Dkt. 29-F tinued below. 

Miami, Oklahoma, 22 92 Opinion -Value 11/26/69 Forland: 
Dkt. 253, consolidated 136 Additional findings on value 11/26/69 $3,826,660,,20 
with: Miami, Indiana, 179 Final award 11/26/69 to Miami 
Dkt 131; Peoria, Wea, unnumbered Order amending conclusions oflaw & opinion 1/8nO plaintiffs in 
Dkt. 314-0 Amended final award 1/8nO Dkts, 253 & 151; 

22 469 Opinion on Miami motion for severance & $1,209,900,,00 to reconsideration 3/18nO Peoria, Wea, 480 Order denying motion for severance & plaintiffs in reconsideration ,3/1sno Dkt 314-0 23 490 Order denyin~ motion by rclaintiffs in Dkt 131 for an extensIOn of time or filing an appeal 9/9nO 
Miami, Oklahoma, Dkt 254 see Potawatomi, Prairie Band, Dkt 15-0, and Potawatomi, Citizen Band, Dkt. 128 


Alphabetical Index of Indian Claims Commission Cases 
Through September 1, 1978-Continued 

VoL Page Decision 	Date Disposition
Tribe 
-------TI Miami, Oklahon:a, 20 97 Findings -Compromise settlement 12/3/68 $66,%6,,00 
M
Dkt, 255, consol!dated 110 Opinion 12/3/68 	for land in (c
with Miami, IndIana, Okt. Final judgment 12/3/68 	Okts. 255 & 
I24-C 

M &
Miami, Oklahoma, 14 375 Findings -Liability, value, & consideration 12/18/64 $1,373,000,,00 
Dkt. 256, consolidated 434 Opinion 12/18/64 for land in 

N
with Miami, Indiana, Interlocutory order 12/18/64 settlement of 
Dkts. 124··0, E & F 15 195 Final judgment 4/1/65 claims in Dkts. 

N
17 427 	Opinion on motion of Miamis of Indiana that 256,124-D, consideration for Kansas lands be charged E&F N
solely against Miamis of Oklahoma 11/29/66 
Order denying motion 11/29/66 3~ 

20 113 Findings -Compromise settlement 12/3/68 127 Per curiam opinion 12/3/68 Final judgment 12/3/68 
Mission Indians of California, see California Indians, Mission Bands of, Dkt. 80; California Indians, Baron Long, et ai, Dkt. 80-A; 
California Indians, San Pasqual Band, Dkt. 80-A; California Indians, Soboba Band of Mission Indians, Okt. 80-A; California Indians, 
Baron Long, et al., Dkt,80-B,CaliforniaIndians,Bands ofMissionIndians,Okt.80-C;CaliforniaIndians,Dkts 31&37, et ai, (including 
Dkts. 80 & 80-D); California Indians, Cabazon Band of Mission Indians, Dkt. 148; California Indians, Twenty-nine Palms Band, 
Dkt. 149; & California Indians, Morongo Band, Dkt.. 325 

Missouri, see Otoe and Missouria, Dkts, II & ll-A 
Mobilian, see Pascagoula, Biloxi and Mobilian Consolidated Bands, Dkt.. 170 
Modoc, see Klamath, Modoc, and Yahooskin 
Mohave, see Colorado River Indian Tribes, Dkts, 185, 28J·A, & 283-B 
Mohave-Apache Community (Fort McDowell), see Apache, Yavapai, Dkts, 22-E & F: and Apache, Northern Tonto, Dkt. 22-J 
Mohaves of Colorado 7 219 Findings -Title 3/19/59 $468,358.07 River Tribes, et al., 245 Opinion 3/19/59 for land in Dkt. 283; & Mohave Tribe Interlocutory order 3/19/59 Okts. 283 & 295 of Arizona, California, and 23 87 Opinion .. Value 5/13170 Nevada, et aI., Dkt. 295; 93 Findings 5/13170 see earlier related opinions 106 Interlocutory order 5/13170 under California Indians, 26 563 Opinion -Offsets 12/29171 Dkts. 31 & 37, et aI.., dated 570 Findings 12/291711/20/58 & 10/6/58 582 Final award 12/29171 
28 232 	Order denying motion for rehearing 7/6/72 
31 357 	Interlocutory order approving compromise settlement & stipulation for entry of final judgment & suspending further proceedings pending dismissal of appeal 9/13/73
203 CC. 709 Order granting motion to dismiss appeal 9/14/73 31 410 Findings on compromise settlement 9/26/73 425 Final award 9/26/73 
Mohave Tribe of Arizona, 23 346 Opinion " Right to sue & liability 6/30170 $550,000,,00 California, and Nevada, 351 Findings 6/30170 for land Dkt. 295-A 356 Interlocutory order 6/30170 
25 409 Opinion on defendant's motion for rehearing 6/16171 413 Order denying motion 6/16171 36 452 Findings on compromise settlement 9/18175 471 Final award 9/18175 
Muckleshoot, Dkt. 98 2 	424 Findings on special defenses 5/14/53 $80,377.00 429 Opinion 5/14/53 for land 
Order denying special defenses 5/14/53 3 658 Findings -Title 8/25/55669 Opinion 8/25/55 Interlocutory order 8/25/55 6 608 Additional findings -Value 7117/58 624 Opinion 7/17/58 Interlocutory order 7/17/58 
12 743 Additional findings -Settlement of offsets 10/18/63 751 Opinion 10/18163 Final judgment 10118/63 


Alphabetical Index of Indian Claims Commission Cases 
Through September 1, 1978-Continued 

Tribe ___~_o_I_. Page Decision Date Disposition 
Muckleshoot, Okt, 98 174 C.C. 1283 Affirmed 2/23/66 (cont.) 385 U,S, 847 Certiorari denied 10/10/66 
Munsee, see Emigrant New York Indians, et aI.., Okt. 75; Six Nations, et aL, Okt, 84; and Stockbridge and Munsee, Okts. 300, 300-A, & 300-B (consolidated with Okt. 84) 
Nambe, Pueblo of, see Pueblo of Nambe 
Natchez, et al., Okt. 365 unnumbered Order dismissing petition 2/24/54 Dismissed 
Navajo, Okts 69, 299 & 31 40 Opinion 7/25/73 All claims 353 59 Order on plaintiffs motions & consolidating transferred to dockets 7/25/73 Court of Claims 34 432 Opinion 8123n4 438 Order modifying previous order & for supplemental accounting 8/23/74 439 Order denying motions to dismiss & vacating order to show cause 8/23/74 35 305 Opinion 1/23/75 311 Order separating consolidated accounting claims in Okts 69,299, & 353 flom remaining claims in Okt. 69 1/23/75 312 Order denying plaintiffs motion for leave to 
amend its petitions 1/23/75 
313 Order denying plaintiffs motion for rehearing 1/23/75 
315 Order in Okt. 69 granting motion to amend 
petition (as to Claims 1 through 6) & denying 
defendant's motion for final judgment 1/23/75 
36 108 Opinion in Okt. 69 (claims I through 6 & 
claim 8) 5/28/75 
112 Order denying defendant's motion for final 
judgment of dismissal of claim 8, & directing 
that plaintiff' make an offer of proof 5/28/75 
113 Order in Okts 69, 299, & 353 separating 
accounting claims from other claims in 
Okt. 69 5/28/75 
114 Order (in accounting claims) sustaining 
plaintiffs objections to defendant's 
interrogatories 5/28/75 
36 181 Order (in accounting claims) denying 
defendant's motion for partial summary 
judgment 6/11/75 
36 215 OIdedn Okt. 69 (claims 1through 6&claim8) 
denying defendant's motion for certification 
of a question to the Court of Claims 7/9/75 
36 415 Order that plaintiff make available certain 
records 8/13/75 
36 433 Opinion (in accounting claims) 9/4/75 
437 Order vacating in part order of 7/25/73, & for 
other purposes 9/4/75 
39 10 Opinion (in accounting claims) 9/1/76 
22 Findings 9/1/76 
32 Order granting in part & denying in part 
defendant's motion for partial summary 
judgment, & for other purposes 9/1/76 
39 144 Opinion (in accounting claims) 11/10/76 
148 Order granting defendant's motion to dismiss 
supplemental exception 4(c) & dismissing 
plaintiff-s motion to strike 11/10/76 
39 252 Opinion (in accounting claims) 12/27176 
257 Dissenting opinion 12/27176 
260 Order granting plaintiff-s motion for an 
up-to-date accounting as to miscellaneous 
agency expenses 12/27176 
39 261 Order certifying & transferring to Court of 
Claims the consolidated accounting claims 
(claim 7 in Okt. 69, & Okts 299 & 353), & 
remaining claims I through 6 & claim 8 
in Okt. 69 12/27/76 

59 



Alphabetical Index of Indian Claims Commission Cases 
Through September 1, 1978-Continued 

Vol. Page Dedsion 	Date Disposition
Tribe
---_. 	--------­
Navajo, Dkt. 229 . 23 244 Opinion ,. Title 6/29170 Transferred to For decisions regardmg 256 Findings 6/29/70 Court of Claims overlaps of the area 276 Interlocutory order 6/29/70 claimed in Dkt. 229, ue: 41 85 Opinion on defendant's motion for summary Apache, San Carlos, White determination 11/2/77 Mountain, Dkt. 22-D; 96 Order granting defendant's motion for Apache, Northern Tonto, summary determination that the Navajo claim Yavapai, Dkt. 22-J; in this case is limited to those aboriginal title Apache, Fort Sill, lands of the Nav~jo Tribe to which the U,S. Chiricahua Tribe et aI, extinguished title pursuant to the Treaty of Dkts. 30 & 48; Havasupai, June 1, 1868 (15 Stat. 667), but which the Dkt. 91; Hopi, Dkt. 1%; U,S. did not subsequently return to the 
PuebloofAcoma,Dkt.266; NavajoTribe 11/2/77 
Pueblo de Laguna, Dkt. 227 41 130 Opinion on plaintiffs motion to amend petition 
& for severance 11/23/77 
138 Order denying plaintiffs motion 11/23/77 
41 140 Opinion on government's motions to quash 
subpoena duces tecum & for protective order 12/2/77 
144 Order granting government's motions 12/2/77 
41 187 Order certifying & transferring to Court of 
Claims 2/15/78 

New York Emigrant Indians, see Emigrant New York Indians, et at" Dkt. 75 
Nez Perce, Dkt.. 175 18 1 Findings -Title 3/21/67 $3,550,000,,00 119 Opinion 3/21/67 for land Interlocutory order 3/21/67 24 429 Opinion 2/18nt 
449 	Order granting in part & denying in part plaintiffs motion for partial summary judgment 2/18nt 
26 	177 Findings -Compromise settlement 8/25nt 192 Final award 8/25nt 
Nez Perce, Dkt. 175-A 8 220 Findings· Value, reservation land 12/31/59 $4,157,605.06 271 Opinion 12/31/59 for land Interlocutory order 12/31/59 
8 759 Additional findings -Compromise settlement 6/17/60 777 Opinion 6/17/60 Final judgment 6/17/60 
Nez Perce, Dkt. 175-B 13 184 Findings 417164 $1,387,911.00 
238 Opinion 417164 for land 
Final order dismissing petition 417164 
176CC, 815 Affirmed in part & reversed in part 7/15/66
386 U.S. 984 Certiorari denied 3/26/67 
386U,S. 1015 Motion to clarify certiorari denial order denied 4/24/67 
22 53 Opinion -Value 11/14/69 
70 Opinion dissenting in part 11/14/69
74 Opinion dissenting in part 11/14/69 
76 Order amending findings & entering 
conclusions of law 11/14/69
22 78 Final award 11/14/69 
194CC. 490 Reversed as to interest question & remanded 3119nt 
404 U,S. 872 Certiorari denied 10/12nt 
29 127 Opinion 11/1/72 
138 Order amending findings & conclusions of law 11/1/72
140 Final award 11/1/72 

Nez Perce of Idaho, 39 127 Order denying defendant's motion to dismiss Transferred to 
Dkt, 179·A, see also & setting time to file exceptions to accounting Court of Claims 
Colville Reservation, report 10/22/76
Confederated Tribes, 39 239 Order certifying & transferring to Court of 

Dkt. 179 
Claims 	12/15/76 
Nez Perce, Dkt. 180 2 193 Per curiam opinion on defendant's motion to Dismissed (after dismiss 6/4/52 viable claims Order dismissing defendant's motion 6/4/52 severed out)2 245 Per curiam opinIon 10/17/52 Order dismissing petition 10/17/52 

Alphabetical Index of Indian Claims Commission Cases 
Through September 1, 1978-Continued 

Tribe Vol Page 	Decision Date Disposition 
Nez Perce, Dkt. 180 unnumbered Order setting aside dismissal order of 10/17/52 
(cont.) & reinstating Dkt, 180, & for other purposes 2/27/53 

unnumbered 	Order severing from petition in Dkt 180 & designating as Dkt. 18Q-A the gold conversion & trespass claims 5/1/53 
unnumbered 	Order dismissing original petition in Dkt" 180 12/4/57 
Nez Perce, Dkt. 180-A 3 	571 Findings -Liability 8/10/55 $3,000,000.00 582 Opinion 8/10/55 for gold removed 618 Opinion agreeing in part &-disagreeing in part 8/10/55 from reservation 
8 300 Additional findings 12/31/59 land & other 338 Opinion 12/31/59 related uses of Interlocutory order & award 12/31/59 the land by white unnumbered Final judgment 7/5/60 intruders 153 c.C 697 Affirmed 5/12/61 
Nez Perce, Joseph Band, ue Colville Reservation, Confederated Tribes as the representatives of the Joseph Band of the Nez Perce Tribe, Dkt. 179; and Colville Reservation, Confederated Tribes, et aI.., on behalf of the Jospeh Band of the Nez Perce Tribe, Dkt. 186 
Nisgah, Dkt, 287 28 	366 Order dismissing plaintiff's claims 917/72 Dismissed 
Nisqually, Dkt 197 21 	173 Opinion -Title 6/25/69 $80,013,07 
179 Findings 6/25/69 for land 
187 Interlocutory order 6/25/69 

29 	432 Opinion -, Value 217/73 447 Additional findings 217/73 470 Interlocutor(; order 217/73 
34 	297 Opinion -0 {sets 7/31n4 303 Additional findings 7/31/74 310 Final award 7/31/74 
208 C.c. 	1029 Affirmed 1/30/76 
Nooksack, Dkt. 46 	333 Memorandum opinion 7/14/50 $49,383.50 
for land unnumbered Order limiting hearing on merits 1/31/52 unnumbered Order denying special defenses for defendant 1/20/52 3 479 Findings -Title 5/9/55 
492 	Opinion 5/9/55 Interlocutory order 5/9/55 
6 578 Additional findings 7/17/58 596 Opinion 7/17/58 Interlocutory order 7/17/58 
6 681 	Opinion 10/20/58 Order denying motions for rehearing & amending finding No, 35 10/20/58 
10 	219 Additional findings 2/9/62 225 Opinion 2/9/62 
Fmal judgment 2/9/62 162 Cc. 712 Affirmed 7/12/63 375 U.s, 993 Certiorari denied 1/20/64 
Okanogan, see Colville Reservation, Confederated Tribes 
Omaha, Dkt. 85 683 	Opinion 12/19/51 Dismissed Order dismissing petition 12/19/51 
Omaha, Dkt. 138, see Iowa, Omaha, Sac and Fox, Dkt. 138; and Otoe and Missouria, Dkt. II-A 
Omaha, Dkt 225 unnumbered 	Order substituting petitions numbered 225-A, Original petition 225-B, & 225-C for petition No, 225, & in Dkt 225 dismissing original petition in Dkt, 225 10/6/53 dismissed 
Omaha, Dkts" 225-A, 3 352 Findings in Dkt 225-A 10/19/54 For settlement 225-B, 225-C, & 225-D 365 Opinion 
10/19/54 of land, account­Interlocutory order 10/19/54 ing, trespass & 4 627 Findings -' Title & consideration in other damage Dkt. 225-A 1/18/57 claims, 
662 Opinion 1/18/57 $2,900,000,,00 Interlocutory order 1/18/57 6 68 Opinion in Dkt 225-C 12127/57 


Alphabetical Index of Indian Claims Commission Cases 
Through September 1, 1978-Continued 

Vol. Page 	Deci5ion Date Dispmition Tn
Tribe Omaha, Dkts. 225-A, Order sustaining in part & overruling in part Os 225-B, 225-C, & 225-D defendant's motion to dismiss petition in (co (cont.) 
Dkt. 225-C 12/27/57 unnumbered Order in Dkt. 225-A amending findings & interlocutory order of 1118/57 2/6/58 
6 730 Findings in Dkt. 225-A on value 11/28/58 751 Opinion~-11128/58 Interlocutory order 11/28/58 
unnumbered Conclusions of law & final award in Dkt. 225-A in net sum of $2,735,833..86 5/6/59 7 573 Opinion on orders disallowing a claimed offset credit of $374,465..02 in Dkt. 225-A 5/13/59 
unnumbered 	Order in Dkt. 225-C granting leave to file Os amended & supplemental complaint [assigned Dkt. No. 225-D asserting a claim for accounting severed by this order from the petition in Dkt. 225-C] ll/19/59 
148 c..C. 727 	Order dismissing appeal from the Com­mission's determination in Dkt. 225··A, by request of the parties 1/15/60 
8 392 	Findings -Compromise settlement in Dkts. 225-A through 225-D 2/11/60 Os 
407 	Opinion 2/11/60 1()( Final judgment or final determination consolidating for all purposes Dkts. 225-A through 225·D; setting aside the final award of 5/6/59 in Dkt. 225-A; & entering a final award Os in the consolidated dkts. 2/11/60 
Oneida, see al50 Emigrant New York Indians, Dkt. 75; and Six Nations, Dkts. 84, 89, and 344 
Oneida of Wisconsin, 12 1 Findings 12/6/62 Dismissed Os Dkt.159 6 Opinion 12/6/62 10 
Final order denying each asserted claim 12/6/62 165 C.C. 487 Affirmed 4/17/64 379 U.S. 946 Certiorari denied 12/14/64 
Oneida of Wisconsin, 18 433 Order dismissing case 6/30/67 Dismissed 
Dkt. 290 

Oneida Nation of New 20 337 Opinion on defendant's motion for partial York, et a1.., Dk!.. 301, summary judgment dismissing claims 1 & 2 claims 1 & 2 of the petition 2/26/69 
351 Dissenting opinion 2/26/69 360 Order denying defendant's motion 2/26/69 
26 	583 Opinion 12/29nt 591 Dissenting opinion 12/29nt 592 Findings 12/29nt 624 Interlocutory order 12/29/71 
37 	522 Opinion 3/19176 554 DIssenting opinion 3/19176 568 Additional findings 3/19176 617 Interlocutory order 3/19n6 
217C.C. 	Affirmed 5117nB 675 F. 2d 870 
Oneida Nation of New 26 138 Opinion 8118nt Claim 8 York, et al., Dkt. 301, 149 Findings 8/18nt dismissed at claims 3 through 8 163 Interlocutory order 8/18nt request of the 
201 C.C. 546 Affirmed in part, remanded in part 5/11/73 plaintiffs 33 69 Order dismissing claim 8 1116174 41 391 Opinion on petition to intervene of counties 
of Madison & Oneida, New York 6/8/78 395 Concuning opinion 6/8/78 398 Order denying motion to intervene 6/8/78 
Osage Nation, Dkt. 9 	43 Findings 12/30/48 $864,107.55 54 Opinion 12/30/48 for land 96 Dissenting opinion 12/30/48 
112 Appendix 12/30/48 Final order dismissing petition 12/30/48 119 C.C. 592 Reversed & remanded 5/1/51 
62 

Alphabetical Index of Indian Claims Commission Cases 

Through September 1, 1978-Continued 
Tribe Vol. Page 	Decision Date Disposition 
Osage Nation, Dkt. 9 342 U.S. 	896 CertioraIi denied 12/1/51 
(cont) 3 	217 Additional findings -Value 8/13/54 
231 Opinion 8/13/54 
274 Dissenting opinion 8113/54 

Interlocutory order 	8113/54 
3 344 	Opinion on plaintiff"s motion for reconsideration 9/27/54 Order denying motion 9/27/54 
422 Additional findings on off·sets 3/1/55 434 Opinion 3/1/55 Fmalorder 3/1/55 
Osage Nation, Dkt. 105 11 	733 Findings _.. Title 11/29/62 See consolidated 812 Opinion 11/29/62 Dkts. lOS, 106, 894 Concuning opinion 11/29/62 107, & 108 below 
Interlocutory order 	11/29/62 
21 	67 Opinion -Value & consideration 6/18/69 75 Additional findings 6/18/69 90 Order [and interlocutory award of 
$6,943,166..21] 	6/18/69 
Osage Nation, Dkts. 19 447 Findings .-Title 9/20/68 See consoli­106 & 107 481 Opinion 9/20/68 dated Dkts. Interlocutory order 9/20/68 lOS, 106, 107, & 108 below 
Osage Nation, Dkt. 108 16 190 	Per curiam opinion on defendant's & See consoli­plaintiffs motions for summary judgment dated Dkts. 
& order denying motions for summary 105, 106, 107, 
judgment 10/27/65 & 108 below 

Osage Nation, Dkts. 23 	447 Findings on compromise settlement 9/3nO $13,250,000..00 
105, 106, 107, & 108 462 	Interlocutory order approving compromise for settlement settlement & stipulation for entry of final of claims for judgment 9/3nO compensation for 
c.c. 	Order dismissing appeals numbered land in Dkts.. 9-69, 10-69, & 11-69 9/15nO 105, 106 & 107, 
23 	492 Final judgment 9/15nO & a claim for recovery of cer­tain legal fees & expenses in Dkt. 108 
Osage Nation, Dkt 126 7 	864 Findings 7/30/59 Dismissed 
878 Opinion 7/30/59 Order dismissing petition 7/30/59 155 CC 824 Affirmed 11/1/61 
Osage Nation, Dkt. 127 unnumbered 	Order dismissing petition 12/11/63 Dismissed 
Otoe and Missouria 2 335 Findings 3/31/53 $1,156,034.35 Tribe, Dkt. 11 355 Opinion 3/31/53 for land 
374 	Opinion concurring in part & dissenting 3/31/53 in part 3/31/53 Interlocutory order [and interlocutory award on 3d & 4th causes of action] 3/31/53 
2 500 Additional findings -Offsets 12/11/53 
507 	Opinion 12/11/53 Conclusions of law & final award [on 3d & 4th causes of action, & order dismissing remaining 1st, 2d, 5th, 6th, & 7th causes of action] 12/11/53 
13l C.C 593 Affirmed in part & remanded in part 5/3/55 350 U.S. 848 CertioraIi denied 10/10/55 unnumbered Order affirming on remand the interlocutory award of 3/31/53 as final award 2/17/56 
Otoe and MissouIia, Dkt. II-A, see Iowa, Omaha, Sac and Fox, Dkt. 138 (consolidated with Otoe and Missouria, Dkt 1I-A) 
Ottawa and Chippewa of unnumbered Order dismissing petition 3/25/49 Dismissed Michigan, Dkt. 4 
63 



Alphabetical Index of Indian Claims Commission Cases 

Through September 1, 1978-Continued 

Tribe Ottawa, Dkt. 40  Vol. Page unnumbered  
Ottawa, Dkt. 40..A  unnumbered  
Ottawa, Dkt 40-B  2  461 469  
unnumbered  
unnumbered  
unnumbered  
unnumbered  
unnumbered  
Ottawa, Dkt. 40-C  2  461 469  
unnumbered  
Ottawa, Dkt. 40-D  2  461 469  
unnumbered  
Ottawa, Dkt 4o..E  2  461 469  
unnumbered  
Ottawa, Dkt. 40-F, see decisions after 8/6/53 affecting Dkt. 40-F under Chippewa, Saginaw, Dkt !J·G  2 31  461 469 220  
Ottawa, Dkt. 40-G  unnumbered  
Ottawa, Dkt 4o..H  4  409 460  
Ottawa, Dkt. 40-1  32  400 413 428  
Ottawa, Dkt, 40-J  11  641 693  
Ottawa [on behalf of Grand River Band of Ottawa Indians], Dkt. 40-K, see prior decisions in Dkt, 4o..K under Potawatomi, Citizen Band, et al., Dkt. 146, et al.  19  95 102  
64  

Decision 
Order directing separation of all causes of action & the setting forth of these causes in separate petitions 
Order dismissing petition 
Findings Opinion Order Order striking from petition in Dkt. 40-B the Ist claim & requiring the refiling thereof in a separate petition assigned Dkt, No. 40..1 Order striking from petition in Dkt 4o..B the 3rd claim & requirin~ the refilin~thereof in a separate petition assIgned Dkt o. 40-J Order striking from petition in Dkt. 40..B the 2d claim & requiring the refiling thereof in a separate petition assigned Dkt. No" 40-K Order overruling defendant's motion to deny the filing of an amended petition for the 4th claim & to dismiss the same, & permitting the filing of an amended petition for such claim & assigning it Dkt No. 40-H Order dismissing petition 
Findings 
Opinion 
Order 
Order dismissing petition 

Findings 
Opinion 
Order 
Order dismissing petition 

Findings 
Opinion 
Order 
Order dismissing petition 

Findings Opinion Order Final order dismissing claims 
Order dismissing petition 
Findings Opinion Order dismissing petition 
Opinion Findings Order dismissing petition 
Findings Opinion Final order dismissing case 
Additional findings on compromise settlement of offsets Opinion Finaljudgment 
Date 
7113/49 
3/9/50 
8/6/53 
8/6/53 
8/6/53 
9/30/53 
9/30/53 
9/30/53 
8/14/53 
2/19/54 
8/6/53 8/6/53 8/6/53 11/6/59 
8/6/53 8/6/53 8/6/53 11/6/59 
8/6/53 8/6/53 8/6/53 12/10/59 
8/6/53 8/6/53 8/6/53 8/9/73 
3/9/50 
9/19/56 9/19/56 9/19/56 
12/26n3 
12/26/73 12/26/73 
11/29/62 11/29/62 1l/29/62 
3/27/68 3/27/68 3/27/68 
Disposition 
Concluded by separating out all causes of action which were assigned Dkt. Nos. pre·· fixed with No., 40 
Dismissed 
Dismissed after the 4 causes asserted in the petition were separated out & assigned Dkt Nos. 40-H, I, J, &K 
Dismissed 
Dismissed 
Dismissed 
Dismissed 
Dismissed 
Dismissed 
Dismissed 
Dismissed 
$932,620.01 for land 
Tr 
Ot Ot Ot 
01 0 0 0 0 
C 
C 



& 
r, 
Alphabetical Index of Indian Claims Commission Cases Through September 1, 1978-Continued 
Tribe Vol. Page Date Disposition Ottawa and Chippewa of Michigan, Dkt. 58, see Bay Mills Community, et at., Dkt. 18-E (consolidated with Okt. 58) 
Ottawa, Dkt.. 68  9  
Ottawa, Dkt. 133  unnumbered  
unnumbered  

80 Order dismissing petition 
Order dismissing claim asserted in paragraphs 66, 67, 68, & 69 of the petition based on Treaty of 8/29/1821, a claim asserted in Okt.. 4Q-B Order severing certain causes of action from the petition in Dk! 133, requiring that they be refiled in separate petitions assigned Dkt. Nos. B3-A, 133-B, & 133-C, & dismissing original petition in Dkt.. 133 
1/11/61 Dismissed 
Dismissed after 
viable claims 
severed out 
8/21/53 
12/26/57 

Ottawa, Dkt 133-A, see decisions & final award in Okt. 133-A (& Dkt. 302) under Saginaw, Chippewa, Dkt. I3-E Ottawa, Dkt. 133-B, see decisions & final award in this case under Saginaw, Chippewa, Dkt. 59 Ottawa, Dkt.. 133-C, ue Saginaw, Chippewa, Okt.. I3-F Ottawa, Dkt. 302, see decisions & final award in Okt. 302 (& Dkt. 133-A) under Saginaw, Chippewa, Dkt. 13-E 
Ottawa, Dkt. 303  8  831 874  
9  98  
11  550 566  
166 e.G. 379 U.S. 14  373 929 677  
Ottawa, Dkt. 304  25 30  1 10 20 206  
Ottawa, Dkt. 305  27 28 30  98 115 131 251 254 208  

Findings Opinion Interlocutory order  6129/60 6/29/60 6/29160  $406,166.19 for land & accountings for  
Opinion on defendant's motion for rehearing  3/10/61  trust funds  
Order admitting additional evidence & denying motion for rehearing Findings -. Damages & offsets Opinion Final award  3/10/61 11126/62 11/26/62 11/26/62  
Reversed in part Certiorari denied  6/12/64 12n164  
Amended final award  2/11165  
Opinion ­Value Findings Interlocutory order  3117nt 3/17nt 3/17nt  $182,610.. 00 for land  
Final award  4/25n:3  
Opinion ­Value Findings Interlocutory order Opinion on defendant's motion for rehearing Order amending findings entered 3/15/72 Final award  3/15/72 3/15/72 3/15/72 7126/72 7126/72 4/25m  $80,585.. 76 for land  

Ottawa of Oklahoma, Dk!.. 338, see Chippewa, Saginaw, Dkt. 13-G 
Ottawa-Chippewa Tribe of 30 Michigan, Dkt.. 364 
33 35 
40 
288 293 
294 
142 149 385 
416 417 
6 
51 
52 
88 
Findings Order directing certain persons & their attorneys to show cause why they should not be Instructed to assume prosecution of  519m  $25,461.92 for accounting  
this case  519m  
Order that defendant show cause why a  
certain accounting should not be filed in  
this case  519m  
Pel' curiam opinion Order Opinion on plaintiff's accounting exceptions  2/14m 2/14m  
& motions by both parties Opinion dissenting in part  1/27/75 1127n5  
Order  1127n5  
Opinion Concurring opinion Additional findings Final award  4/1n7 4/1n7 4/1n1 4/1n7  

Paiute, see also Snake or Piute Indians of former Malheur Reservation, Oregon, Dkt. 17 






Alphabetical Index of Indian Claims Commission Cases 
Through September 1, 1978-Continued 

Tribe  Vol.  Page  
Paiute Nation, Northern, et ai, Dkt. 87, see  7  322 381  
reference to Dkt. 87 in  
opinions of 1/20158 & 10/6/58 under California Indians, Dkts.31 & 37  7  615  
unnumbered  
9  417  
429  
16  215  
289  
183 ec.  321  
Paiute Nation, Northern,  27  39  
et al., Okt. 87-A  
45  
28  256  
263  
30  210  
219  
203 CC.  468  
c.e.  
34  414  
426  
35  II  
36  254  
41  222  
Paiute, Pyramid Lake  36  256  
Tribe, Dkt. 87··B, see  270  
prior decisions under Dkt. 87·A relating to Pyramid  
Lake Reservation  
& water  
66  

Decilion 
Findings -Title Opinion Interlocutory order Additional findings on dates of taking of the Oregon & Nevada portions of claimants' aboriginal lands Interlocutory order Order, entered on plaintiffs' motion, amending findings of fact & interlocutory order of 3/24159 Additional findings of fact on compromisesettlementofthe ..Snake-PaiuteTract[Oregon land] claim" Statement & opinion of the Commission Final judgment for the plaintiffs in behalf of the Snake or Paiute Indians of the Oregon Area (for the Snake..Paiute Tract) Additional findings on valuation of the Mono & Paviotso tracts Opinion Order approving<itipulati@n of settlement of offsets Final judgment for plaintiffs on behalf 
of: (I) The Monos or Paiutes of Owens 
Valley (for the Mono Tract); 

(2) The Paviotso or Paiutes of western 
Nevada (for the Paviotso Tract) 

Affirmed . . 
Opinion on motion for interlocutory order as to dates of establishment of Pyramid Lake Reservation & Walker River Reservation Order fixing dates of establishment of the Pyramid Lake Reservation & the Walker River Reservation Opinion on motion for determination of defendant's liability for resources removed from Nevada pOrtion of the Paviotso Tract Order finding defendant liable to plaintiff's for resources removed from Nevada portionof the Paviotso Tract Opinion on plaintiffs' motion for interlocutory order pertaining to issues of liability on claim for depriving Pyramid Lake of water Order Order of 8/1/72 reversed & the cause remanded Rehearing denied Opinion on plaintiffs' motion for a complete & proper accounting Interlocutory order Order relieving defendant of requirement of supplementing its accounting as to certain 
matters Order granting motion to sep'arate water claim of Pyramid Lake Paiute TrIbe from Okt. 87-A. assigning said claim Dkt. No. 87-B, & granting lea.e to file amended & supple­mental petition in Dk! 87·A Order cenifying & transfening to Court of Claims 
Findings ..-Compromise settlement Final award 
Date  Dilposition  T  
3/24159 3/24159 3/24159 6/4159 6/4159 6/4159 7/3/61 7/3/61 7/3/61 11/4/65• ' 11/4165  Concluded by judgments shown below, which represent compensation for land $3,650,000.. 00  Pl et 33 0 of C D Pi B; Pi of Pi D , -l  
11/4/65  
$935,000.. 00  
11/4/65 4119/68 2/16m  $15,790,000.. 00 Transferred to Court of Claims  
2/16m  
811m  
811m  
4/25173 4/25173  
1/23174 4/24174  
8/14174 8/14174  
9/18174  
7/23/75  
3/2178  
7/23175 7/23175  $8,000,000.00 for deprivation of water  



Alphabetical Index of Indian Claims Commission Cases 
Through September 1, 1978-Continued 

Iribe Vol. 	Decision Date Disposition 
Paiute Nation, Southern, 14 618 Findings -Compromise settlement 1/18/65 $7,253,165..19 et al., Dkts 88, .330 & 647 Opinion 1/18/65 for settlement 33Q-A, see mention of Final judgment 1/18/65 of aboriginal Dkts. 88 & 330 in opinions land, & account­of 1/20/58 & 10/6/58 under ing claims California Indians, Dkts 31 & 37 
Pala and Pauma Bands of Mission Indians, see California Indians, Baron Long, et al., Dkts. 8o-A, 8o-B; California Indians, Mission Bands of, Dkts. 80, 8o-C, & 80-D (under California Indians, Dkts 31 & 37) 
Palmer, Alaska, Natives 27 135 Order granting motion to dismiss claim 3/15/62 Dismissed 
of, DkL 370 

Papago of Arizona, 26 365 	Opinion 11/16171 Concluded with 
Dkt. 102 370 	Order denying without prejudice plaintiffs an award in 
request for a full & complete accounting consolidation 
for the period 7/1/51 to present date, & with Dkt. 345, 
requiring defendant to supplement its account­see below 
ing report dated 7/24/70 in certain respects 11/16171 

35 316 Opinion on defendant's motion for summary judgment 1/23/75 319 Order denying defendant's motion & setting a pretrial hearing 1/23/75 
Papago of Arizona, 19 394 Findings -Title 9/10/68 Concluded with 
DkL 345 424 Opinion 9/10/68 an award in 
Interlocutory order 9/10/68 consolidation 

21 	403 Additional findings 1O/l/69 with Dkt. 102, 406 Interlocutory order on date of taking 10/1/69 see below 407 Order amending interlocutory order dated 
9/10/68 10/1/69 unnumbered Report of the Commissioner 2/22/71 
Papago of Arizona, 38 542 	Findings on compromise settlement 7/21/76 $26,000,000..00 
Dkts. 102 & 345 559 Final award 7/21/76 	for settlement of land & trespass damage claims in Dkc 345 & a claim for a general accounting in Dkc 102 
Papago, see also Maricopa-Ak Chin Reservation Indians, Dkc 235 
Pascagoula, Biloxi and 20 130 Order dismissing case 12/3/68 Dismissed Mobilian Consolidated Band, DkL 170 
Pawnee, Oklahoma, 230 	Findings 7/14/50 $7,316,097.70, 
Dkt. 10 245 	Opinion 7/14/50 of which amount Interlocutory order re 6th & 7th causes some of action 7/14/50 $7,315,800.00 Final order dismissing 1st, 2d, 3d, 4th, 5th, was for land & & 8th causes of action 7/14/50 the balance for 
124 C.C. 324 Affirmed in part, reversed in part 2/3/53 small sums 5 224 Findings _. Title 6/17/57 owing, one in the 268 Opinion 6/17/57 amount of$3 1.90 Interlocutory order 6/17/57 with interest 
7 721 Opinion -Admissibility of exhibits 6/26/59 Order 6/26/59 8 648 Additional findings --Value 6/14/60 718 Opinion 6/14/60 Third interlocutory order 6/14/60 9 82 Additional findings -Offsets 1/31/61 
85 	Opinion 1/31/61 Interlocutory order amending findings & the third interlocutory order of 6/14/60 1/31/61 
67 




Alphabetical Index of Indian Claims Commission Cases 
Through September 1, 1978-Continued 

Page Decision 	Date Disposition
_T_ri_b_e__--------Vol. 
--=-------------------------------'------, 
Pawnee, Oklahoma, 9 94 	Supplemental opinion 2n161 
Order amending interlocutory order

Dkt. 10 
of 1/31/61 	217/61(cont.) 
Amended conclusions of law & final award 2n161 157 CC. 134 Reversed in part & remanded 4/4/62 370 U.s. 918 Certiorari denied 6/11/62 
unnumbered Order amending findings 7/6/62 unnumbered Amended conclusions of law & final award 7/6/62 
Pecos, Pueblo de, see Pueblo de Pecos, Okt. 174 
Pembina Band, see Chippewa, Red Lake, Pembina, & White Earth Bands, Dkt. 18-A; Chippewa, Little Shell Band, et al., Dkts. 191 & 221; Chippewa, Turtle Mountain Band, Dkt. 113; and Chippewa, Pembina Band, Dkt. 246 (consolidated with Okts. 113, 191 & 221) 
Pend d'Oreille, Lower 6 353 Findings -Title 6/9/58 $3,000,000,,00 
(Kalispel), Dkt. 94 369 Opinion 6/9/58 for land 
Interlocutory order 6/9/58 

12 141 Additional findings on compromise settlement 3/21/63 157 Opinion 3121/63 Final judgment 3/21/63 
Peoria, Dkts, 65,66, 99, 4 223 Findings in respect to the capacity of the See separate 
289,313,314, & 338 (con-Peoria Tribe of Indians of Oklahoma dockets below 
solidated for single hearing ["Peoria" in this index] to maintain suit on 
on issues considered in the claims for or on behalf of the Wea, Kaskaskia, 

r'
findings, opinion, & order / Piankeshaw & Peoria tribes or nations of 
of 3/26/56) Indians 3/26/56 
239 Opinion upholding capacity of the Peoria 
Tribe of Indians of Oklahoma to sue 3/26/56 

249 	Opinion concurring in part & dissenting in part 3/26/56 Interlocutory order & allowance of motion to amend corporate name of petitioner 3/26/56 
Peoria, Kaskaskia, II 171 Additional findings [to those of 3/26/56, $1,139,532,91 
Piankeshaw, Wea, cited above] 9/12/62 for land & 
DkL.65 174 Opinion 9/12/62 damages, mea-

Interlocutory order, including orders dis-sured by in-missing petition for an accounting under all terest, resulting treaties enumerated therein, except the from breach of Treaty of May 30, 1854, & denying "Claim I" 9/12/62 treaty provision 
15 123 Findings 3/17/65 re sale of land 142 Opinion 3/17/65 Interlocutory order & award 3/17/65 
Peoria, Kaskaskia, 15 488 Final award 8/4/65 
Piankeshaw, Wea, 177 CC. 762 Affirmed 12/16/66 
Okt.65 390 US. 468 Revised & remanded 4/1/68
(cont.) 184 CC. 801 Order withdrawing & vacating decision of 

12/16/66 as to issue involving liability of the 
U.S. for interest on funds it failed to invest, & remanding the case to the Commission 5/6/68 
20 	62 Opinion 1l/13/68 Order substituting finding, vacating final award of 8/4165, & final award 11/13/68 
Peoria, Kaskaskia, unnumbered 	Order upon stipulation dismissing petition in Dkt, 66 dis-
Dkts. 66 & 313 	Dkt. 66, & ordering, inter alia, that the claims missed. See later pleaded therein be included by amendment decisions re m the petition in Dkt. 313 5/6/57 Dkt. 313, below 
Peoria, Piankeshaw, 16 574 Findings on title, including Kickapoo overlap $3,270,400,,00 Dkt,99, claim (in Okt. 315) 4/4/66 for land see mention of this case 593 Opinion 4/4/66
in opinion, findings, & Interlocutory order 4/4/66 
order of 4/4n3 under unnumbered Rel'0rt of the Commissioner 1/21/69
Pottawatomie, 22 186 Opmion -Value 1215/69
Prairie Band, 197 Supplemental findings 12/5/69
Dkt. 15-D 223 Interlocutory order 1215/69 

22 442 Final award 	2/11nO 
P, al 
et 
P 
D 
Sf 



~ 
) 


Alphabetical Index of Indian Claims Commission Cases 
Through September 1, 1978-Continued 

Tribe Vol. Page 	Decision Date Disposition 
Peoria, Piankeshaw; 19 107 Findings -Title 3/27/68 Forland: and Delaware, Absentee, 118 Opinion, 3/27/68 $1,501,294.35 et aI.., Dkt 289 Interlocutory order 3/27/68 to the Peoria 
unnumbered Report of the Commissioner 	12/2/69 plaintiffs on 
24 	179 Opinion --Value 12/11/70 behalf of the 186 Findings 12/11/70 Piankeshaw 195 Interlocutory order 12/11/70 Tribe; & 
24 468 Final award 2/24/71 	$1,497,246,.11 to the Delaware plaintiffs on behalf of the Delaware Tribe 
Peoria, Kaskaskia, 34 428 Opinion on denying plaintiffs' motion with 
Dkt.313, respect to valuation date of lands ceded by 
see Pottawatomie, the Illinois 8/22/74 

Prairie Band, Dkt. 15-D, 431 Order denying plaintiffs' motion 8/22/74 
& Peoria, Kaskaskia, 
Dkt. 66 

Peoria, Wea, Dkt. 314 unnumbered 	Severenceorderallowingwithdrawalofpetition Original petition & the filing in place thereof of 6 petitions withdrawn assigned Dkt. Nos. 314 Amended, 314-A, 314-B, 314-C, 314-D, & 314-E 1/9/58 
Peoria, Wea, Dkl. 314 9 49 Pel' curiam opinion on plaintiffs' motion for $876,477.30 
Amended, partial summary judgment 8/5/60 for land 
see prior decisions in this Order granting in part & denying in part 

case under Peoria, Dkts. plaintiffs' motion for partial summary judg­65, et al.; Miami, ment 8/5/60 
Oklahoma, Dkt 67; & 9 274 Explanatory statement & findings -­Miami, Oklahoma, Dkt Consideration and other offsets 4/18/61 
253 289 Opinion 4/18/61 

Interlocutory order 4/18/61 12 392 Additional findings -Value of 1832 grant 
claimed as an offset 7/29/63 398 Opinion 7/29/63 Final order (& award) 7/29/63;']' 169 e.e. 1009 Modified & affirmed 3/12/65 
15 266 Order amending final order 	5/7/65 
Peoria, Wea, Dkt 314-A, see Pottawatomie, Prairie Band, Dkt 15-D 
Peoria, Wea, Dkt. 314-B, see Potawatomi, Citizen Band, et aI.., Dkt 128 	~ 
Peoria, Wea, Dkt. 314-C 10 271 Findings on Wea & Kickapoo lands 3/2/62 $349,750,,00 
279 Opinion 3/2/62 for land 
Interlocutory order3/2/62
unnumbered Order amending findings & 
interlocutory order of 3/2/62 3/10/64 
174 C.C. 550 Affirmed 2/18/66 

22 	186 Opinion -Value 12/5/69 197 Supplemental findings 12/5/69 223 Interlocutory order 12/5/69 
22 	384 Final award 1/28/70 
Peoria, Wea, Dkt 314-D, see Miami, Oklahoma, Dkt. 253, consolidated with Dkts. 131 & 314-D 
Peoria, Wea, Dkt 314-E 18 463 Findings on compromise settlement 7/18/67 $33,262..92 473 Opinion 7/18/67 for land Final judgment 7/18/67 
Peoria, Kaskaskia, Piankeshaw, Wea, Dkt. 338, see Chippe\lta, Saginaw, Dkt 13-G 
Piankeshaw, see Peoria, Dkts. 65,99,289, & 338 
Pillager Band, see Chippewa, Minnesota, et aI.., Dkts 18-B & 18-N; and Chippewa, Pillager Bands in Minnesota, Dkt 144 
Pima-Maricopa. Gila 24 301 Opinion -Title 12/17/70 Transferred to River, Dkt, 228 311 Findings 12/17n0 Court of Claims 337 Interlocutory order 12/17n0 
69 



Alphabetical Index of Indian Claims Commission Cases 
Through September 1, 1978-Continued 

Tribe 
Pi;;'-Maricopa, Gila 
River, Dkt. 228 
(cont) 
Pima-Maricopa, 
Gila River, Dkt. 236 

Pima-Maricopa, Gila 
River, Dkts. 236-A & 236·B 

Pima··Maricopa, Gila River, Dkt. 236-C 
Pima-Maricopa, Gila River, Dkt. 236-D 
Pima-Maricopa, Gila River, Dkt. 236-E 
Pima-Maricopa, Gila River, Dkts.. 236-F & 236-1 unnumbered 
Vol.  Page  
27 28  II 17 21 170  
204 C.C. 419 U.S. 41  137 1021 304  

unnumbered 
25 	250 260 278 279 
199 ce. 	586 
38 	393 408 430 
39 	85 
39 	87 
29 	144 
168 42 202 
42 	202 
33 	18 29 48 
38 1 37 40 60 
30 	233 
Decision 	Date Disposition 
._-------­
Opinion -Dates of taking Additional findings Interlocutory order . Order denying plaintifrs' motion for reheanng on date of taking Affirmed Certiorari denied Order certifying & transfening to Court of Claims 
Order dismissing 
Report of Commissioner (Dkt. 236-A) Opinion -Liability Findings First interlocutory order (Dkt. 236-A) First interlocutory order (Dkt. 236-B) Affirmed in part, reversed in part, & remanded Opinion -Value & damages Additional findings Interlocutory order Order granting plaintiffs' motion for judgment & denying defendant's motion for leave to file out of time its amended answer for offsets Final award 
Opinion on extent of plaintiff's right to divert water from the Gila River Interlocutory order Order certifying & transferring to Court of Claims 
Order certifying & transfening to Court of Claims 
Opinion -Liaibility Findings Interlocutory order Opinion -Amount of liability & damages Opinion dissenting in part Additional findings Final award 
Order dismissing claims pertaining to some 
1,349.88 acres of land (known as Memorial Airfield) 
1I20m 
1120m 
1I20m 

617m 
4/17n4 

11118/74 
5/8178 
2/26/69 	Dismissed (after all causes re­moved & assigned other dkt. nos.) 
11/20/68 Additional com­4/28/71 pensation for use 4/28/71 of reservation 4/28/71 land during World 4/28/71 War II& damages 10113m for diminution in 6/30176 the value of the 6/30176 land related to 6/30176 such use: 
$1,569,396.20 in Dkt. 236-A; & $6,069.70 in Dkt 
9/20176 236-B 
9/30176 

Transferred to II/17m Court of Claims 11I17m 
7113/78 
Transferred to 7/13/78 Court of Claims 
1110174 $5,451,229.90, 1110174 consisting of a 1110/74 principal sum of 4/5/76 $2,930,338.8.3 4/5/76 illegally collected 4/5/76 for operation & 4/5176 maintenance 
charges of San Carlos Project, & $2,520,89107 in damages mea­sured by 4% in·· terest through 12131175 on the principal sum. The award in­cludes an addi­tional sum to be measured by interest at 4% per annum from and including 1/1176, until paid, on the prinCipal sum of $2,930,33883. Appeal pending in Court of Claims. 
see below 

5/9/73 
rri 
Pin 
Rh 

Pin 
Rh 

Pin 
Ril 

Pin 
Ril 

see 





er 
led .) 
r 
se 
'Id 
~s 
in e 
:t.. 
Alphabetical Index of Indian Claims Commission Cases Through September 1, 1978-Continued 
Tribe Vol. Page Decision Date Disposition 
Pima-Maricopa, Gila River, Okt. 236-F  41  304  Order certifying & transfening to COUlt of Claims  5/8/78  Transfened to Court of Claims  
Pima-Maricopa, Gila River, Dkt. 236-G  34 35  290 296 17  Opinion Order to show cause why petition should not be dismissed Order dismissing petition  7/25/74 7/25/74 9/30/74  Dismissed  
Pima·Maricopa, Gila River, 236-H  25  21  Order dismissing petition  3/24/71  Dismissed  
Pima-Maricopa, Gila River, Okt. 236-1, see also Dkts. 236-F & I above  25 41  305 310 304  Opinion on defendant's motion for pre­liminary adjudication Order denying defendant's motion Order certifying & transferring to Court of Claims  5/19/71 5/19/71 5/8/78  Transferred to Court of Claims  
Pima-Maricopa, Gila River, Dkt. 236-J  21  277  Order dismissing petition  6/27/69  Dismissed  
Pima-Maricopa, Gila River, Dkts. 236-K, L, & M  20 19OCC. 400 U.S.  131 790 819  Opinion Order dismissing petitions Affirmed Certiorari denied  12/12/68 12/12/68 2/20/70 10/12/70  Dismissed Dismissed  
Pima-Maricopa, Gila River, Dkt. 236-N  39 39 35  209 222 224 239  Opinion on plaintiffs exceptions to defendant's accounting report Interlocutory order [including, inter alia, an order dismissing certain exceptions] Order dismissing certain exceptions Order certifying & transfening to'Court of Claims  1l/22174 11/22/74 12/2/76 12/15/76  Transferred to Court of Claims  
Pima-Maricopa, Salt River, Dkt.291  35 36 39  225 274 279 239  Order granting partial summary judgment [as to certain accounting exceptions] and for supplemental filing Opinion Order requiring the submission ofinformation and denying defendant's motion to dismiss exceptions 8 & 9 Order certifying & transfening to Court ot Claims  8/13/75 12/15/76 11/22/74 8/13/75  Transferred to Court of Claims  
Pitt River, Dkt. 347, see other decisions involvin~ Dkt. 347 under California Indians, Dkts. 31 & 37, et al.  unnumbered 7 815 850 6 86 93 6 666  Opinion Opinion Opinion Order dividing California into Areas A & B Findings ­Title Opinion Interlocutory order Order denying petition to file a belated appeal from, or to set aside 01' modify a judgment of the Indian Claims Commission  1/20/58 1/20/58 10/6/58 10/6/58 7/29/59 7/29/59 7/29/59 11/1/72  Concluded with other cases by award under California In­dians, Dkts. 31 & 37, et af.  
Piute, see Paiute, and Snake or Piuie Indians of former Malheur Reservation, Oregon, Dkt  17  
Ponca, Dkt. 322  12 20 26 27  265 293 272 281 203 209 217 10  Findings -Title Opinion Interlocutory order Opinion ­Value & consideration Additional findings Secondary interlocutory order Opinion =-Offsets Additional findings Final award Order denying motion for rehearing to amend finding & final award  7/26/63 7/26/63 7/26/63 2/4/69 2/4/69 2/4/69 9/8/71 9/8/71 9/8/71 1/12/72  $1,878,500.. 00 for land  
Ponca, Dkt.. 323  6  409  Pel' curiam opinion Order dismissing Count II of the petition  6/19/58 6/19/58  $1,013,425.24 for land  
71  



Alphabetical Index of Indian Claims Commission Cases 
Through September 1, 1978-Continued 

Tribe _----.  Vol.  Page  
I7  162  
206  
236  
183 CC.  673  

unnumbered 24 339 
349 
362 197 C.C. 1065 197 CC. 1068 
28 	335 347 350 
Ponca, Dkt. 324 15 573 
Potawatomi, Citizen Band, et al., Dkt. 71, see structure or entity 
Decision 	Date Di'.sposition 
Findings Opinion Opinion concurring in part & dissenting in part Order Affirmed in part with modifications, re­versed in part & remanded Report of Commissioner Opinion -Value & extent of defendant's liability Additional findings Final award Remanded in part & affirmed in part Rehearing denied Opinion Supplemental findings Final award on remand 
Findings -Accounting claim Final award 7/26/66 7/26/66 7/26/66 7/26/66 
4/19/68 6/9/69 
12I30nO 12/30nO 12/30nO 12/30nO 2/25n2 5/15n2 8/23n2 8/23/72 8/23/72 
8/27/65 $2,458.30 8/27/65 for accounting 

Pottawatomie, Prairie Band, et al", Dkt. 15··C; and Potawatomi Indians, political 
Potawatomi, Citizen Band, et al., Okt. 71-A, see Pottawatomie, Prairie Band, et al.., Dkt. 15-J 
Potawatomi, Citizen Band, et al., Okt. %  6  646 658  
14  570 585  
19  368 379  
Potawatomi, Citizen Band, et al., Okt. 101  14  I 6  

Findings -Liability Opinion Interlocutory order Supplemental findings .-Value Opinion Interlocutory order Additional findings -Offsets Opinion Final judgment 
Findings-On the merits Final order dismissing petition 
Potawatomi, Citizen Band, et al.., Okt. 11 J, see Pottawatomie, Prairie Band, et al., Okt. 15-B 
Potawatomi, Citizen Band, et al., Okts.. 128,309,310; 
Pottawatomie, Prairie 
Band, et al", Okts., 15·N, 
15-0, 15-Q, 15·R; Potawa­
tomi, Hannahville, et al .., 
Okts. 29-L, 29-M, 29··0, 

29-P; Potawatomi of In­
diana and Michigan, Inc, 
intervenors in the Potawa.. 
tomi dkts.; Miami, Indiana, 
Okt. 124-B; Miami, Okla­
homa, Dkt. 254; Peoria, 
Wea, Dkt. 314-B, 
see also Potawatomi 

Indians, political 
structure or entity 9/18/58 $797,508.99 9/18/58 for land 9/18/58 12/30/64 12/30/64 12130/64 8/27/68 8/27/68 8/27/68 
32  461  Opinion ­ Title  
4%  Concurring opinion  
497 531  Findings Interlocutory order  
206 CC.  867  Affirmed  

4/14/64 Dismissed 4/14/64 
12/28/73 12/28/73 12/28/73 12/28m
3nns 
Tn 
Po 
et, 
tor 
m 
4(} 
Ha 
m 
see 
J 





Alphabetical Index of Indian Claims Commission Cases Through September 1, 1978-Continued 
Tribe Vol. Page Decision Date Disposition 
Potawatomi, Citizen Band, 
et aI., Dkt. 146; PottawaoO 
tomi, Prairie Band, et al., 
Dkt. 15-M; Ottawa, Dkt. 
4O-K; Potawatomi, 
Hannahville, et al., 
Okt. 29-K, 
see also Potawatomi 

Indians, political structure 01' entity; & under consolidated Potawatomi, Hannahville, et ai" Dkts. 29-L, 29-M, 29-0, & 29-P opinions & order dated 10/14/64 relating to Dkt. 29-K 
g 
ical 
Potawatomi, Citizen Band, et al", Dkt. 216; Pottawatomi, Prairie Band, et al., Dkt. 15-L; Potawatomi, Hannahville, et al., Dkt.. 29-1; Potawatomi of Indiana and Michigan, Inc., intervenor in Dkts. 216, 15-L, & 29-1; Chippewa, Saginaw, Dkt.. l3oOK; Chippewa, Red Lake Band, et ai, Dkt. IS··P; Ottawa, Dkt. 40-1, see also Potawatomi 
Indians, political structure 01' entity; & under consolidated Potawatomi, Hannah­ville, et al., Dkts. 29-L, 29-M, 29-0, & 29-P opinions & order dated 10/14/64 relating to Dkt. 29··1 
6 14  414 442 329  Findings -­Title Opinion Interlocutory order Opinion accompanYin~order denying plaintiffs' motion in D t. 29-K, & for other  6/30/58 6/30/58 6/30/58  $2,296,870 70 to Potawatomi plaintiffs in Dkts. 146, 15-M, & 29-K, for land.  
purposes  12/2/64  See disposition  
341  Dissenting opinion as to motion ofDkt. 29-K plaintiffs to amend findings of 6/30/58, &  of Dkt. 4O-K un­del' Ottawa, Dkt.  
Appendix A thereto, a related dissenting  4O-K  
opinion as to plaintiffs' motion to admit  
additional evidence dated 10/14/64 Order denying motion by Dkt. 29-K plaintiffs  12/2/64  
14  518  to amend findings dated 6/30/58 Order dismissing the petition in Dkt. 29-K, & for other purposes Additional findings -Value & consideration  12/2/64 12/2/64  
549  (Dkts. 146, 15-M, & 4O-K) Opinion Second interlocutory order [and interlocutory award to plaintiffs in Dkts. 146 & 15-M] Second interlocutory order [and interiocutOly  12/23/64 12/23/64 12/23/64  
180 C.C.  477  award to plaintiffs in Dkt. 4().·K] Commission's decisions of 6/30/58 & 12/2/64 reversed (as to the Potawatomi cases) &  12/23/64  
34  remanded Final award (Dkts. 146, 15-M, & 29-K)  6/9/67 4/19174  
32 400 413 428 unnumbered  Opinion ­Title Findings on title Final order dismissing claims in Dkts 13oOK, 18oOP, & 40-1, & for other purposes Order in Dkts,. 216, 15-L, & 29-1 approving  12/26173 12/26173 12/26/73  Dkts. BoOK, 18..P, & 4().·1 dismissed  
& adopting the parties' stipulation in respect  
42  524  to value of Royce Area 7S Interlocutorkorder [and interlocutory award] in D ts 216, 15-L, & 29-1  8/6175 8/30178  

73 




Alphabetical Index of Indian Claims Commission Cases 


Through September 1, 1978-Continued 

Tribe 
potawatomi, Citizen Band, el al.., Dkt. 217; pottawatomie, Prairie Band, et al., Dkt. 15-K; Potawatomi, Hannahville, et al., Dkt. 29-J; Chippewa, Sa¥inaw, Dkt. 13-L; Chippewa, Red Lake Band, el al.., Dkt. 18-1; Ottawa, Dkt. 40-.J, 
see also Potawatomi Indians, political struc­ture or entity; & under consolidated Potawatomi, Hannah· ville, el al., Dkts. 29-L, 29·M, 29-0, & 29-P opinions & order dated 10/14/64 relating to Dkt.29-J 
Vol. 
11 
15 
15 

179 C.C. 
180C.C. 
389 U.S. 390 US. 30 
Page 
641 693 
232 
234 237 
473 
477 
1046 
957 
144 171 172 203 204 
Decision 
Findings -Title, value & consideration Opinion Interlocutory order with respect to Dkts.. 217, 15-K, & 29-J, & final order dismissing petitions in Dkts.. 13-L, 18-1, & 40-J Order amending Commission's findings, opinion, & interlocutory order of 11/29/62 Supplemental findings on offsets Opinion Final award in Dkts. 217, 15-K, & 29-J Commission's determinations of 11/29/62 & 4/15/65 on the Potawatomi claims affirmed in part, reversed in part, & remanded Commission's determinations of 11/29/62 & 4/15/65 on the Potawatomi claims reversed & remanded Certiorari denied [Dkt.. 217 plaintiffs as to 179 C.c. 473] Certiorari denied [Dkt.. 29-J plaintiffs as to 179 CC. 473] Opinion Concurring opinion Supplemental findings Order vacating & amending findings Final award 
Dale 
11/29/62 11/29/62 
11/29/62 
4/15/65 4/15/65 4/15/65 4/15/65 
4/14/67 
6/9/67 
1/15/68 
3/4/68 4/25/73 4/25/73 4/25/73 4/25/73 4/25173 

Potawatomi, Citizen Band, el al., Dkt.. 306, see Pottawatomie, Prairie Band, el aI., Dkt. 15-D, and Dkt. 15-P 
Potawatomi, Citizen unnumbered Order dismissing petition 5/11/59 
Band, et al., Dkt. 307, 
see also Miami, Oklahoma, 

Dkt. 253; opinion & 
order dated 7/15/76 under 
Potawatomi, Hannah­
ville, el al .., Dkts.. 
29·D & 29..E; & 
Potawatomi Indians, 
political structure 
or entity 

Disposilion 
Dkts. 13-L, 18-1, & 40-J dismissed. $4,104,818..98 for land in Dkts. 217, 15-K, & 29-J. 
Dismissed see prior partial dis­missal at 5 Ind. CI. Comm.180, 198 

Potawatomi, Citizen Band, el al., Dkt. 308, see Chippewa, Saginaw, Dkt. 13-F; and Potawatomi Indians, political structure or entity Potawatomi, Citizen Band, et al., Dkt.. 309, see Potawatomi, Citizen Band, el aI., Dkt.. 128 Potawatomi, Citizen Band, el al.., Dkt.. 310, see Potawatomi, Citizen Band, et al .., Dkt. 128 Potawatomi, Citizen Band, el aI., Dkt.. 311, see Miami, Oklahoma, Dkt. 67; and Pottawatomie, Prairie Band, el ar., Dkt. 15-D 
n 

Potawatomi, Citizen Band, 17 536 Order dismissing petition with prejudice 12/22/66 Dismissed et al., Dkt. 312 
Potawatomi, Citizen Band, el al., Dkt.. 338, see Chippewa, Saginaw, Dkt.. !J·G; and Potawatomi Indians, political structure or entity 
Potawatomi, Hannahville, et al., Dkt. 28 
see orders in the group of Hannah­ville Dkts. immediately below 
Potawatomi, Hannahville, el al., Dkts. 28, & 29-A, B,C,D, E,G,I,J,K, 
L,M,N,0, & P 
unnumbered 
115 CC. 823 unnumbered 
41 304 
unnumbered 
unnumbered 
173 CC. 1186 

Order sustaining defendant's motion to dismiss as to claims of Canadian Potawatomi Indians & striking from the petition allega­tions relating to claims in behalf of Canadian Potawatomi Indians Appeal dismissed on appellant's motion Order directing plaintiffs to file their exceptions to defendant's accounting reports Order certifying & transferring to Court of of Claims 
Order denying plaintiff's' motion for preliminary determination Order denying plaintiffs' motion for rehearing & reconsideration Appeal dismissed Partially dis­missed.. Trans­fen'ed to Court of Claims. 
1/25/49 i/3/50 
9/1/76 
5/8/78 
Preliminary 12/1/64 matter in a group 
of Hannahville 12/1/64 dkts. The dis­11/19/65 position of Dkt. 
28 is given above. 

Tri, 
POl 
Ha Ok 
Pot Bal 
Pot am 
Pot 13.. 
Pot Ha Dki 
see' 
11 Ie I, 
I 
e 

I' 2 
~ 
f 
( 
1 
~ 
POl 
Dk 
POi 
stn 
POl 
Ha 
Dk 

POl 
10/ strt 
POI 
10/ sin 
Po: 10/ stn 
POI 
et ~ 
29­




8-1, sed. 
~ts. 

Alphabetical Index of Indian Claims Commission Cases 
Through September 1, 1978-Continued 

Tribe  DecisionPageVol._---=-----_.  Date  Disposition  
Potawatomi, Hannahville, et aI.., Dk!.. 29  unnumbered'  Order directing separation of all causes of action in plaintiffs' petition & the refiling thereof in separate petitions assigned  Concluded by separating out all causes of  
separate docket numbers  7/13/49  action  

Potawatomi, Hannahville, et aI.., Dkt 29-A, see Potawatomi, Hannahville, et al., Dkts" 28, et al .., above; and Pottawatomie, Prairie Band, et ai, Dk!.. 15-C 
Potawatomi, HapnapYIII.e, et fll., D,k!... 29-B, see Mia,mi, QklaJlpma, Dkt. 67; Potawatomi, Hannahvillt1, et a{., p,kts 28, ~tal.., above; and Pottawatomie, Prairie Band, et al., Dkt. 15-D 
Potawatomi, HanllahviJIe, et aI, Dkt. 29-C, see Potawatomi, Hannahville, et al., Dkts.. 28, et ai, above; Chippewa, Saginaw, Dkt. \J·G; and Potawatomi Indians, political structure or entity 
Potawatomi,  14  204  Opinion on defendant's motions to dismiss  10/14/64  See final award  
Hannahville, et al., Dkts. 29-D & 29··E, see also Potawatomi,  219  Dissenting opinion Order denying plaintiffs' motion to insert the name of "Albert Mackety" as party plaintiff  10/14/64  in Dkt. 29-D under Chippewa, Saginaw, Dkt.  
HannahviJIe, et aI.., Dkts. 28, et al., above; Potawatomi Indians,  180 C.c.  477  & granting defendant's motions to dismiss the petitions in Dkts.. 29-D & 29-E Reversed & remanded  10/14/644/9/67  \3-E. See final award in Dkt. 29-E  
political structure or entity; final award & related decisions in Dkt.  38  456  Opinion treating as a motion to intervene in Dkts. 29··D & 29-E a joint motion by the Prairie Band of Pottawatomie Indians, et al..  under Chippewa, Saginaw, Dkt. 59  
29-D under Chippewa, Saginaw, Dkt. \3··E; & final award & related decisions in DkL 29-E under Chippewa, Saginaw, Dkt. 59  467  (plaintiffs in dismissed Dkts. 15.. F & 15··G), & the Citizen Band of Potawatomi Indians, et al. (plaintiffs in dismissed Dkt. 307, as amended) to reinstate their respective petitions Interlocutory order denying joint motion to reinstate petitions in Dkts. 15-F, 15-G, & 307, as amended, & granting leave to the applicants  7/15/76  
in those dismissed dockets to intervene in  
29-D & 29-E  7/15/76  

Potawatomi, Hannahville, et ai., Dkt. 29-F, see order dismissing this case and related findings and opinion under Miami, Oklahoma, Dkt. 253 
Potawatomi, Hannahville, et aI.., Dkt. 29-G, see Potawatomi, Hannahville, et aI.., Dkts 28, et aI.., above; Potawatomi Indians, political structure or entity; and Chippewa, Saginaw, Dkt. 13-F 
Potawatomi, unnumbered Order dismissing the cause set forth in the Dismissed 
Hannahville, et aI.., petition 5/8/53 Dkt. 29-H 
Potawatomi, Hannahville, et aI.., Dkt 29-1, see Potawatomi, Hannahville, et ai, Dkts. 28, et ai, above; opinions and order dated 10/14/64 under consolidated Potawatomi, Hannahville, et al., Dkts 29..L, 29-M, 29-0, & 29-1', below; Potawatomi Indians, political structure or entity; and Potawatomi, Citizen Band, et ai, Dkt. 216 
Potawatomi, Hannahville, et al., Dkt. 29-J, see Potawatomi, Hannahville, et al., Dkts. 28, et al., above; opinions and order dated 10/14/64 under consolidated Potawatomi, Hannahville, et ai, Dkts 29-L, 29..M, 29..0, & 29-1', below; Potawatomi Indians, political structure or entity; and Potawatomi, Citizen Band, et ai, Dkt. 217 
Potawatomi, Hannahville, et al., Dkt, 29-K, see Potawatomi, Hannahville, et al., Dkts. 28, et al., above; opinions and order dated 10/14/64 under consolidated Potawatomi, Hannahville, et ai, Dkts 29-L, 29-M, 29-0, & 29-1', below; Potawatomi Indians, political structure or entity; and Potawatomi, Citizen Band, et ai, Dkt 146 
Potawatomi, Hannahville,  14  172  Opinion on plaintiffs' motion to admit certain  Special grouping  
et ai, Dkts. 29-L, 29-M,  of their proposed exhibits in Dkts. 29-L, 29-M,  to consider  
29-0, & 29-1'  29..0, & 29-1' as evidence in Dkts. 29.. 1, 29-J, &  plaintiffs'  
29.. K  10/14/64  motion. See  
189  Dissenting opinion  10/14/64  Dkts. 29-L, M,  
Order denying admission of additional  0, & P, below.  
evidence in Dkts. 29-1, 29..J & 29-K  10/14/64  
173 CC  1186  Appeal dismissed  11/19/65  

Potawatomi, Hannahville, et al., Dkts. 29-L & 29-M, lee Potawatomi, Hannahville, et aI.., Dkts 28, et al., above; the opinions and order dated 10/14/64 immediately above, under Dkts. 29-L, 29-M, 29-0, & 29·1'; Potawatomi Indians, political structure or entity; and Potawatomi, Citizen Band, et ai, Dkt. 128 



Alphabetical Index of Indian Claims Commission Cases 
Through September 1, 1978-Continued 

Tribe Vol. Page 	Date Disposition 
Potawatomi, Hannahville, et al., Okt. 29-N, see Potawatomi, Hannahville, el al.., Okts. 28, el 01., above; Potawatomi Indians, political structure or entity; Pottawatomie, Prairie Band, el al., Okt. IS-O (title phase); and Pottawatomie, Prairie Band, el 01.., Okt. IS-P 
Potawatomi, Hannahville, el al., Okts. 29-0 &. 29-P, see Potawatomi, Hannahville, el 01.., Okts. 28, et01 .., above; the opinions and order dated 10/14/64 above under consolidated Okts. 29-L, 29-M, 29-0, &. 29-P; Potawatomi Indians, political structure or entity; and 
Potawatomi, Citizen Band, el 01., Okt. 128 Potawatomi, Henry unnumbered 
Jackson, el al.., Dkt.. 6 
Potawatomi Indians, 27 
political structure or 
entity, proceeding in: 
Potawatomi, Citizen Band, 
el al., Okts. 71, 128, 146, 
216, 217, 306, 308,309, 
310,311,338; 
Pottawatomie, Prairie 
Band, el al., Okts. IS-C, 0, 
E, I, K, L,M, N,0, P, Q, 
&. R; &. Potawatomie, 29 
Hannahville, el al., Okts. 
29-A, B,C, 0, E,G,I,J, 
K, L, M,N, 0,&.P 

20S C.C. 
187 252 325 
328 419 
765 
Pottawatomie, Prairie unnumbered 
Band, Okt. 15 
Pottawatomie, Prairie 2 
Band, el 01., Okt. 15-A 

125 C.C. 
Pottawatomie, Prairie 3 
Band, el al., Okt. 15-B; 
&. Potawatomie, Citizen 
Band, el 01., Okt. 111 3 

Pottawatomie, Prairie 28 
Band, el al., Okt. lS-C; 
Chippewa, Red Lake Band, 
el al., Okt. 18-H; 
Potawatomi, Hannahville, 
el al., Okt. 29-A; &. 
Potawatomi, Citizen Band, 
el al., Okt.. 71 

33 
38 
38 
see also Potawatomi 215 C.C. Indians, political structure or entity 
207 219 
60 
10 40 
540 547 
454 469 496 
498 394 
407 128 231 341 389 
1 
Order dismissing claim 
Opinion Findings Order denying defendant's motion to dismiss petitions in Okts. 29-0 &. 29-E, reinstating petition in Okt. 29-K, granting petition of the Potawatomi Indians of Indiana and Michigan, Inc., to intervene as plaintiffs in Okts. 29-0, 29-E, 29-J, &. 29-K" &. for other purposes Dissenting opinion Order denying motion by Citizen &. Prairie Bands for rehearing &. amendment offindings , &. for other purposes, two Commissioners dissenting Affirmed 
Order dismissing petition, amended petition, &. 2d amended petition, all causes being pleaded in separate petitions filed under other docket numbers 
Findings on the merits 
Opinion 
Conclusions of law &. judgment dismissing 
petition 
Affirmed 

Statement &. findings 
Opinion 
Interlocutory order 
Additional findings -Offsets 
Opinion 
Conclusions of law &. final award 

Opinion -Title Findings Interlocutory order [in Okts.. IS-C, 29-A, &. 71 including an order granting motion of the Potawatomi Indians of Indiana and Michigan, Inc., to intervene in Okts. IS-C, 29-A, &. 71; &. an order dismissing the petition of the Chippewa plaintiffs in Okt. 18-H] Opinion concuning in part &. dissenting in part Opinion on denying plaintiffs' motion regarding pretrial determination of basis for valuation of .. Exchange Land" Order denying plaintiffs' motion Opinion -Value &. consideration Fmdings Interlocutory order Final award Affirmed 
2/15/49 	Dismissed 
3/28n2 	De novo 
3/28/72 	proceeding to resolve the question of the political structure of the Potawatomi Indians during 
3/28/72 	the period 179S­
3/28/72 	1833 when they ceded their lands &. settlements in the Great Lakes 
1/24/73 	region east ofthe 
12/18/74 	Mississippi in Ohio, Michigan, Indiana, Illinois, &. Wisconsin 
Dismissed 
12/27/57 
6/5/S2 Dismissed 
6/5/S2 

6/5/52 
4/7153 
4/23/54 For land: 4/23/S4 $126,306.24 to 4/23/54 the Prairie Band, 8/8/S5 Okt. 15-B; &. 8/8/5S $2.3.3, IS4.36 to 8/8/55 the Citizen 
Band, Okt. III 
9120/72 	$4,239,200..00 for 
9/20/72 	land to the plaintiffs in Okts. IS-C, 29-A, &. 71, in behalf of the Potawatomi Tribe or Nation. 
9/20/72 Okt. 18-H 9/20/72 dismissed. 
3/20n4 
3/20/74 
S/26/76 S/26/76 S/26n6 
6/23/76 10/10/77 Po Ba 

&.

H, 29 Ci: 
301 Pi; Pc' 31 31' 
m 

0Ii 
Ki, 
se. 
] ] 
Po Ba Po 
et ( 
Po 
el, 
Po Mi in I Pc, 
31: 
31~ 
Po· 
et, 
POI 
Ba 15· 
see 
POI 
Dk 
POI 
POI 
Ba 
POI Bal 






Alphabetical Index of Indian Claims Commission Cases 
Through September 1, 1978-.'Continued 

:al er 
1.. 
is 
n 
Ie 
I, i, 
I, 
II' 
Tribe  Vol.  
Pottawatomie, Prairie  30  
Band, et ai, Dkts 15-D, P,  
& Q; Potawatomi,  
Hannahville, et ai, Dkts  
29-B, N, & 0; Potawatomi,  
Citizen Band, et ai, Dkts.  
306, 309, & 311; Peoria,  
Piankishaw, DkL 99;  31  
Peoria, Kaskaskia, DkL  
313; Peoria, Wea, Dk!.  
314-A; Miami, Indiana,  
Dkt. 124-H; Miami,  
Oklahoma, Dkt. 254;  
Kickapoo, DkL 315,  32  
see also Miami, Oklahoma,  
Dkt. 67; and Potawatomi  
Indians, political  
structure or' entity  205 C.C.  
Pottawatomie, Prairie  42  
Band, et aI., Dkt. 15-D;  
Potawatomi, Hannahville,  
et aI., DkL 29··B;  
Potawatomi, Citizen Band,  
et ai, DkL 311;  
Potawatomi of Indiana and  
Michigan, Inc, intervenor in Dkts, 15-D, 29-B, & 311;  
Peoria, Kaskaskia, DkL  
313; Peoria, Wea, Dk!.  
314-A; Kickapoo, Dk!. 315  

Page Decision 	Date Disposition 
42 Opinion -Title 4/4/73 Initial proceed­82 Opinion concuning in part & dissenting in part 4/4/73 ing to determine 85 Opinion con~uning in part & dissenting in part 4/4/73 land title issues. 86 Findings 4/4/73 See particular 
124 	Order [including, inter alia, an order dockets. Dkts, dismissing from this proceeding the claims in 15-D, 29-B, 3IL, Dkts. 99, 124-·H, & 254] 4/4/73 313, 314-A, & 
330 	Opinion on granting defendant's motion to file 315 are out oftime, & denying defendant's motion for continued rehearing 8129173 together, below 
346 	Order granting defendant's motion to file out See final award of time & denying defendant's motion for in Dkts, 15-P, rehearing 8/29/73 29-N, & 306, 
232 Opinion on denying defendant's motion to below, under continue consolidation or to reconsolidate 11121173 Pottawatomie, 239 Order denying defendant's motion to continue Prairie Band, consolidation or to reconsolidate 11121173 et ai, DkL 15··P., 
765 	Affirmed [30 Ind Cl. Comm. 42, & 27 Ind 
CL Comm, 187, on Potawatomi political 
structure] 12/18/74 

354 Opinion -Value & consideration 8/25/78 
434 Findings on value & consideration 8/25/78 
521 Order setting awards sUQject to offsets 8/25/78 

Pottawatomie, Prairie Band, et al., DkL 15..,E, see Potawatomi Indians, political structure or entity; and Saginaw, Chippewa, Dk!. l3-G, 
et ai,  
Pottawatomie, Prairie Band, et al., Dkts 15-F & 15-G, see opinion and order of 7/15/76 under  unnumbered unnumbered  Order dismissing petition in Dkt. 15-F Order dismissing petition in DkL 15-G  11/3/59 1113/59  Dkts.. 15-G dismissed  15-F &  

Potawatomi, 
Hannahville, et aI., 
Dkts 29·D & 29-E 

Pottawatomie, Prairie Band, et ai" DkL 253 . 
Pottawatomie,!Prairie Band, et aI" 
Pottawatomie, Prairie Band, et ai, Dkt. 15-J; Potatwatomi, Citizen Band, et ai, Dkt. 71-A 
143 C,c. 359 U.s, 7 
Pottawatomie, Prairie Band, et ai, Okt 
Poltawatomie, Prairie Band. et ai, Okt 
Okt. 15-H, see order dismissing this case and related findings and opinion under Miami, Oklahoma, Dk!. 15-1, see Potawatomi Indians, political structure or entity; and Chippewa, Saginaw, OkL l3-F 
4 
4 
409 460 47.3 514 131 908 170 178  Findings on general issues Opinion on general issues Interlocutory order [and award subject to offsets] Findings on motion by Prairie & Citizen Bands to dismiss intervening petition by Hannahville, et al Opinion on motion to dismiss intervening petition Order dismissing amended intervening petition Affirmed dismissal ofpetition forintervention Certiorari denied Additional findings on offsets Opinion Conclusions of law & final award  9/19/56 9/19/56 9/19/56 9/19/56 9/19/56 9/19/56 7/16/58 2/24/59 2/26/59 2/26/59 2/26/59  $3,288,974.90 in Dkts. 15-J & 71-A for land  
15-K, see Potawatomi, Citizen Band, et ai, Okt, 217  
15-L, see Potawatomi. Citizen Band, et ai, Okt  216  
77  


Alphabetical Index of Indian Claims Commission Cases 

Through September 1, 1978-Continued 
Tribe Vol. Page Decision 	Date Disposition 
Pottawatomie, Prairie Band, et al., Okt. 15-M, see Potawatomi, Citizen Band, et ai, Okt. 146 
Pottawatomie, Prairie Band, et al., Okts. 15-N & 15-0, see Potawatomi, Citizen Band, et al., Okt. 128 
Pottawatomie, Prairie 41 399 Opinion .. Value & consideration 618n8 $1,809,552.57 in Band, et al., Okt. 15-P; 445 Findings 6/8/78 Okts. 15·P, 29-N Potawatomi, Hannahville, 508 Interlocutory order 6/8n8 & 306 for land et al., Okt. 29-N; 42 205 Final award 7/14/78 
Potawatomi, Citizen Band, 
et al., Okt. 306; 
Potawatomi of Indiana 
and Michigan, Inc.. , 
intervenors in Dkts.. 15-P, 
29-N, & 306 
See prior decision in 

Okts. 15-P, 29-N, & 
306 on land title issues 
under Pottawatomie, 
Pr'airie Band, et al .., 
Okt. 15..D. See also 
Potawatomi Indians, 
political structure 
or entity.. 

Pottawatomie, Prairie Band, et al., Dkts. 15·Q & 15·R, see Potawatomi, Citizen Band, et al., Dkt. 128 
Pueblo de Acoma, 17 615 Findings' Laguna (Okt. 227) & Navajo $6,107,157.00 
Okt.266 (Okt. 229) overlaps 2/28/67 for land 
666 Opinion 2/28/67 
Interlocutory order 2/28/67 
18 154 Findings .. Title, Laguna & !'Sav~jo overlaps 
included 3/31/67 
202 Opinion 3/31/67 

Interlocutory order 3/31/67 19 152 Order amending findings of fact & opinion 5/2/68 23 219 Additional findings· Compromise settlement 6/17n0 
235 Final judgment 	6/17n0 
Pueblo de Cochiti, 7 422 Findings on the merits 3/27/59 Dismissed 
Dkt. 136 437 Opinion 3/27/59 
Final order dismissing petition 3/27/59 

Pueblo de Isleta, 7 619 Findings on the merits 6/5/59 Dismissed 
Dkt.211 642 Opinion . 6/5/59 

Final order oismissing petition 6/5/59 152 CC. 866 Affirmed 3/10/61 368 U.S. 822 Certiorari denied 10/9/61 
Pueblo de Jemez, see Pueblos de Zia, Jemez, and Santa Clara, Okt. 137; and Pueblo de Pecos, et al.., Okt. 174 
Pueblo of Laguna, 17 615 Findings on title, including Acoma (Dkt. 266) $900,000..00 et al., Dkt. 227 & Nav~jo (Dkt.. 229) overlaps 2/28/67 for land 666 Opinion 2/28/67
Interlocutory order 2/28/67 18 366 Order amending opinion 4/20/67 18 380 Order amending opinion 5/4/67 19 154 Order amending findings & opinion 5/716824 197 Findings .. Compromise settlement 12/11/70 
207 Final award 	12/11/70 
Pueblo of Nambe, 16 393 Findings· Title 11/9/65 Transferred to Dkt.358 408 Opinion 11/9/65 Court of Claims Interlocutory order 11/9/65 
24 425 	Order denying I?laintiff's motion for summary judgment of liability for interest on money paid under Pueblo Lands Act of 6/7/24 2/lOnJ 
39 34 Opinion on motion for rehearing 9/16/76 41 Order denying motion for rehearing 9/16/7641 304 Order certifying & transferring to Court of Claims 5/8/78 



Alphabetical Index of Indian Claims Commission Cases 
Through September 1, 1978-Continued 

9-N d 
Tribe 
Pueblo de Pecos, et aI., Dkt. 174 
Vol..  Page  
4  130  
8  195  
209  
152 C.c.  865  
368 U.S.  821  

Decision  Date  Disposition  
Pel' curiam opinion Order sustaining claimant's motion to amend p. ovenuling defendant's motion to dismiss  12/13/55 12/13/55  Dismissed  
Findings Opinion Final order dismissing petition Affirmed Certiorari denied  12/11/59 12/11/59 12/11/59 3/10/61 10/9/61  

Pueblo de San Antonio de la Ysleta del Sur, et at, ue Apache, Lipan and Mescalero, Dkt. 22-C 
Pueblo of San I1defonso, Dkt. 354 
24 
27 
30 
206 c.c. 39 
41 
425 Order denying plaintiff's motion for summary 
judgment ofliability for interest on money paid 
under Pueblo Lands Act of 6/7/24 2/10nI 
37 Order requiring, inter alia, that plaintiff file a 
con·ected land description 219m 234 Opinion on title & related issues 519/73 256 Opinion concuning in part & dissenting in part 519/73 259 Findings 519/73 282 Interlocutory order 519/73 649 Affirmed 4/16/75 
34 Opinion on plaintiff's motion for rehearing on order of21 10/7 I denying summary judgment 9/16/76 38 Order denying motion for rehearing 9/16/76 304 Order certifying & transfening to Court of Claims 5/8/78 
Pueblo de Santa Ana, see Pueblos de Zia, Jemez, and Santa Ana, Dkt. 137 
Pueblo of Santa Clara, Dkt.356  24 27 30  
206 C.C. 39  
41  
41  
Pueblo of Santo Domingo, Dkt. 355  24 27 30  
206 c.c. 39  
39  
40 42  

425  Order denying plaintiff's motion for summary  
judgment ofliability for interest on money paid  
37  under Pueblo Lands Act of 6/7/24 Order requiring, inter alia, that plaintiff file a  2/10nI  
conected land descrihtion  219m  
234 256 259  Opinion on title & re ated issues Opinion concuning in part & dissenting in part Fmdings  519/73 519/73 5/9/73  
286 649  Interlocutory order Affirmed  519/73 4/16/75  
34 40 29  Opinion on plaintiff's motion for rehearing on order of 2/10/71 denYin~ summary judgment Order denying motion or reheanng Opinion on motion for summary judgment:  9/16/76 9/16/76  
36 304  Townsite of Espanola Order denying motion for summary judgment Order certifying & transferring to Court of Claims  10/5/77 1015/77 5/8/78  
425  Order denying plaintiff's motion for summary  
judgment ofliability for interest on money paid under Pueblo Lands Act of 6/7/24  2/10nI  
37  Order re:riring, inter alia, that plaintiff' file a correcte land descrihtion  219m  
234 256 284 649  Opinion on title & re ated issues Opinion concuning in part & dissenting in part Interlocutory order Affirmed  519/73 519/73 519/73 4/16/75  
34 39 241  Opinion on plaintiff's motion for rehearing on order of 2/10/71 denying summary judgment Order denying motion for rehearing Opinion on plaintiffs motion for summary  9/16/76 9/16/76  
251 101 105 306 319 345  judgment for Fifth Amendment taking of certain land Order denying motion for summary judgment Opinion on motion for rehearing Order denying rehearing & calling conference Opinion on question of eastern boundary Additional findings Interlocutory order  12/22/76 12/22/76 4/18/77 4/18/77 8/17178 8/17178 8/17178  

Transferred to 
Court of Claims 

Transfened to 
Court of Claims 



Alphabetical Index of Indian Claims Commission Cases 
Through September 1, 1978-Continued 

Vol. Page Decision 	Date Disposition
Tribe 	T 
Pueblo of Taos, 15 	666 Findings -Title & related issues 9/8/65 Transferred to p688 Opinion 9/8/65 Court of Claims
Dkt.357 
Interlocutory order & interlocutory award on 
Q
claim relating to land in town of Taos 9/8/65 
21 342 	Order granting leave to amend petition .. Claims arising from proceedings under Pueblo Lands Act assigned DkL 357··A; claims for taking without compensation of aboriginal lands to remain in Dkt. 357 8/13/69 
22 444 	Order granting leave to amend petition & to file additionalJetition to be designated as Dkt. 357-B, sai petition to relate to some 48,000 acres (Blue Lake aboriginal land area) 2/18/70 
Q
33 127 	Order vacating order of 2/18/70 (22 Ind. CI. 
RComm, 444) insofar as it granted plaintiff 
D
leave to file a new petition with respect to its Blue Lake claim to be designated as Dkt. 357-B [see related opinions of 2/4/74 under Dkt 357-A, below] 2/4/74 
41 304 	Order certifying & transfening to Court of Claims 5/8/78 
Pueblo of Taos, 24 406 Opinion on plaintiffs motion for summary $1,030,437.35, Dkt.357-A judgment of liability for interest 2/10/71 in principal & 
41.3 Order denying motion for summary judgment 2/10/71 interest for 926 
24 414 	Order to show cause why the Commission's acres of land in findings, opinion, & interlocutory order of town of Taos, 9/8/65 [in Dkt. 357] relating to the plaintiffs N.M. town of Taos claim, should not be vacated 2/10/71 
33 82 	Opinion on issues raised by order to show 
cause of 2/10171 2/4/74 115 Opinion dissenting in part 2/4/74 119 Findings 2/4/74 127 Interlocutory order [& interlocutory award] 2/4/74 
207 Cc. 53 Affirmed 	5/14/75 
CC. Rehearing denied 10/10/75 37 520 Final award 3/17/76 
Pueblo of the Tigua Indian Community, see Apache, Lipan and Mescalero, Dkt. 22..C 
Pueblo de Zia, 11 1.31 Findings -Title 9/11/62 $749,083.75 Pueblo de Jemez, 147 Opinion 9/11/62 for land and Pueblo de Santa Fmal order dismissing petition 9/11/62 Ana, DkL 137 165CC. 501 Reversed & remanded 4/17/64 
165 C.C. 509 Amendment of remand directive 1/22/65 19 56 Additional findings -Dates of taking 3/7/68 67 Opinion 3/7/68 
Interlocutory order 3/7/68 19 94 Order conecting opinion of 3/7/68 3/26/68 21 316 Opinion on defendant's motion for a pretrial 
determination of the basis for the appraisal of gratuitous offsets of real property 7/23/69 321 Order determining basis for the appraisal of gratuitous offsets of real property 7/23/69 unnumbered Report of Commissioner 9/3/69 
24 	270 Opinion .. Value 12/17170284 Additional findings 12/17/70 300 Interlocutory order 12/17/70 
26 	218 Opinion .. Offsets 9/15/71 243 Additional findings 9/15/71 264 Final award 9/15/71 
200 C.C. 601 	. Affirmed in part, reversed in part, & remanded 2/16173 
CC. Order amending amount of offset 4/27/73 33 I Findings -Compromise settlement 1/10/74 
16 	Order amending opinion & findings, & amended final award 1/10/74 
Puyallup, DkL 203 17 I Findings -Title 4/25/66 Transferred to 16 Opinion 4/25/66 Court of Claims Interlocutory order 4/25/66 41 304 Order certifying & transferring case to Court of Claims 5/8/78 


Alphabetical Index of Indian Claims Commission Cases Through September 1, 1978-Continued 
1ribe Vol. Page Decision 	Date Disposition
-----,---­
Pyramid Lake Paiute Tribe of the Pylamid Lake Reservation, see Paiute, Pyramid Lake Tribe, Okt. 87-B 
Quapaw,Okt. 14 	469 Findings 3/15/51 $927,668.04 474 Opinion 3/15/51 for land in 2d 
Interlocutory order [& award on 2d cause] 3/15/51 cause; remaining 644 Additional findings -Offsets 12/6/51 1st cause 652 Opinion 1216/51 dismissed 
Conclusions of law & final award 12/6/51128 C.L 45 Reversed in part & remanded 4/6/54 unnumbered Amended final award [on cause 2, cause 1 dismissed] 5nt54 
Quechan of Fort Yuma unnumbered Order dismissing petition 8/22/58 Dismissed 
Reservation, California, 
Okt.86 

Quechan of FOlt Yuma 6 ~ Opinion 1/20/58 $520,000.00 
Reservation, California, 93 Opinion 1/20/58 for land 
Okt.319 6 666 Opinion 10/6/58 

Order dividin~ California into Areas A & B 10/6/58 8 111-A Findings -Tit e 9130/59 138 Opinion 9/30/59 Interlocutory order 9/30/59 156 CC. 714 Appeal & cross appeal withdrawn 3/23/62 
13 89 	Opiniononissueremandedby COUltofClaims 3/3/64Order determining issue remanded by COUlt of Claims 3/3/64 
15 489 Additional findings -Compromise settlement 8/5/65 512 Opinion 8/5/65 Flllal judgment 8/5/65 
Quechan of FOlt Yuma 26 15 Opinion on plaintiffs motion to reopen record Transfened to Reselvation, Califomia, & to vacate Older staying fUlther proceedings 7/21/71 COUlt of Claims Okt 320 20 Order granting plaintiff's motion to vacate 
order staying further proceedings & conditionally de!ing plaintiff's motion to reopen the recor 7/21nJ 
39 239 	Order celtifying & transferring case to Court of Claims 12/15/76 
Queets Tribe or Band, see Quinaielt. Okt. 242 
Quileute, Okt. 155 7 31 Findings -Title 12/1/58 $112,152,60 
49 Opinion 12/1/58 for land 
Interlocutory order 12/1/58 
unumbered Order amending findings of fact & 

interlocutory order of 12/1/58 7/2/59 158 C.C. 701 Appeal dismissed 7/6/62 10 427 Findings -Compromise settlement 7/9/62 438 Opinion 7/9/62 Final detelmination 01' judgment 7/9/62 
unnumbered Amended final determination or judgment 4/17/63 
Quinaielt, Okt 242 7 1 Findings -Title 12/1/58 $205,17240 17 Opinion 12/1/58 for land Interlocutory order 12/1/58 unnumbered Order amending findings of fact & interlocutory order of 12/1/58 6/29159 158 C.C 702 Appeal dismissed 7/6/62 10 411 Findings -Compromise settlement 7/9/62 
423 	Opinion 7/9/62 Final determination 01' judgment 7/9/62 Amended final determination or judgment 4/17/63 
Red Lake, see Chippewa, Red Lake Band 
Ridaught, Horace G, see Choctaw, Ridaught Band, Dkt 346 
Rincon Band. see Califomia Indians, Okts. 80 & 80-0 (under California Indians. Okts. 31 & 37); Califomia Indians, Baron Long, el at, Okt 80-A; Califomia Indians, Baron Long, el at, Okt. 8().·B; California Indians, Bands of Mission Indians. Okt. So-C 
81 


Alphabetical Index of Indian Claims Commission Cases 
Through September 1, 1978-Continued 

Vol. Page 	Decision Date Disposition
Tribe 
3 395 Opinion 	11/17/54 $1,%9,585.00
Sac and Fox, Okt. 83 
Order denying 3d defense 11/17/54 for land 7 675 Findings .-Title 6/12/59 708 Opinion 6112/59 
Interlocutory order 6/12/59 161 CC. 189 Affirmed 4/5/63 375 u..S. 921 Certiorari denied 11118/63 
18 548 	Order granting defendant's motion to amend answer 9n167 
19 159 	Order granting motion to exclude grants, denying motions to vacate order granting defendant's motion to amend answer, & denying motion to expunge 5/16/68 
25 	414 Opinion on boundary & acreage issues 6/16/71 423 Additional findings 6/16/71 429 Interlocutory order 6/16/71 
32 	320 Opinion -Value 12/26173 348 Additional findings 12/26173 398 Final award 12/26173 
206 Cc.. 898 	Affirmed 4/25/75 
206 CC. 898 	Rehearing denied 6/27/75 
Sac and Fox, Okt. 95 26 513 Opinion --Accounting liability 12/27/71 $20,421.78 for 
520 	Findings 12/27/71 accounting de-Interlocutory order & award of $20,421.78, ficiencies. In less any allowable gratuitous offsets 12/27/71 compliance with 
202 CC 1088 	Interlocutory order affirmed as to awarded the remand amount & reversed insofar as it failed to enter directive of the judgment for a sum found to be held for Court of Claims, claimant's credit in a trust account, & the the Commis-Commission was directed to enter judgment sion's final award for such fund 611173 also ordered that 
202 CC. 	1090 Rehearing denied 10/17/73 the Sac and Fox 
34 	189 Opinion on remand 6/19/74 (of Miss. in 196 Dissenting opinion 6119n4 Iowa) recover as 200 Interlocutory order 6119/74 a separate award 
35 12 Final award, one Commissioner dissenting 9/25/74 	a balance stand­ing to its credit in a Treasurj; trust account, ut no new funds were appropriated to pay this separate award. 
Sac and Fox, Ok!. 135, see Iowa, Sac and Fox, Okt. 135 
Sac and Fox, Okt. 135-A 9 301 Findings on the merits 5/8/61 Dismissed 308 Opinion 5/8/61 Final order dismissing petition 5/8/61 159 CC. 247 Affirmed 1117/62 
Sac and Fox, Okt. 138, see Iowa, Omaha, Sac and Fox, Okt. 138 (consolidated with Otoe and Missouria, Okt. II-A) 
Sac and Fox, Okt. 143 15 381 Findings -Value & consideration 5/19/65 $1,789,201.45 409 Opinion 5/19/65 for land Final order [and judgment] 5/19/65 
Sac and Fox, Dkt.. 153, see Iowa, Sac and Fox, Dkt. 153 
Sac and Fox, Okt. 158, see Iowa, Sac and Fox, Okts. 158,209, & 231 
Sac and Fox, Okt. 195 13 295 Findings· Value & consideration 5/1/64 $192,00000 313 Opinion 5/1/64 for land to Interlocutory order & award 5/1/64 Missouri Sac 15 120 Final judgment 3/10/65 and Fox 
Sac and Fox, Okt. 209, see dismissal of this claim under Iowa, Sac and Fox, Okts. 158, 209, & 231 
hi 

Sau 


Alphabetical Index of Indian Claims Commission Cases 
Through September 1, 1978-Continued 

1ribe -Sac and Fox, Okt  219  Vol. 18  
Sac and Fox, Ok! 220  11  
167 C.C 17  

Page 
558 612 
578 608 
710 544 
Sac and Fox, Ok! 231, see Iowa, Sac and Fox, Okts 
Decision  Date  Disposition  
Findings -Value & consideration Opinion Final award  9/29/67 9/29/67 9/29/67  $889,408..54 for land to Sac and Fox of Mississippi  
Findings on the merits Opinion Final order dismissing the claims Reversed & remanded Opinion accompanying order amending findings of fact & for entry of final judgment Order denying motion of Oklahoma Sac and Fox for modification of certain findings of fact Order amending findings of fact & for entry of final judgment  11/28/62 11/28/62 11/28/62 10/16/64 2/14/67 2/14/67 2/14/67  $692,564.,15 for land to Sac and Fox of Oklahoma  
158, 209, & 231  

Sac and Fox, Ok! 232, see order of 3/2/65 dismissing Sac and Fox petition in Ok!. 232 under Iowa, Omaha, and Sac and Fox, Ok! 138 (consolidated with Otoe and Missouria, Okt II-A) Saginaw Chippewa, see Chippewa, Saginaw Salish and Kootenai, see Flathead Reservation, Confederated Salish and Kootenai Tribes 
til 
IS, 
rd at IX 
a:s Id l­in 
it 
) 
e 
Samish, Okt 261  6  159 169  
13  583  
591  
26 26  61 67 75 318  

Findings -Title Opinion Interlocutory order Findings on allocation of consideration under  3/11/58 3/11/58 3/11/58  $5,754.,96 for land  
Point Elliott Treaty Opinion , Order relating to allocation of Point Elliott  8/13/64 8113/64  
Treaty consideration Opinion -, Value Findings Interlocutory order  8/13/64 7/28/71 7/28/71 7/28/71  
Final award  10/6/71  

San Antonio de la Ysleta del Sur, Pueblo de, see Apache, Lipan and Mescalero, Okt 22-C 
San Carlos Apache, see Apache, San Carlos 
San Carlos of Arizona, unnumbered Order dismissing petition in Okt 223 without Dismissed Okt, 223 prejudice to the determination in Okts 22-0 
or 22-H of claims originally presented in Okt, 
223 	8/23/63 
San I1defonso, Pueblo of, see Pueblo of San I1defonso, Okt 354 
San Juan, Okt 214 5 	517 Findings on the merits 10/30/57 Dismissed 520 Opinion 10/30/57 
Final order dismissing petition 10/30/57 San Pasqual Band, see California Indians, Okts. 80 & 80-0 (under California Indians, Okts 31 & 37); California Indians, Baron Long, et ai, Okt. 80-A; California Indians, San Pasqual Band, Ok! 80-A; California Indians, Baron Long, et aI., Ok!. 80-B; California Indians, Bands of Mission Indians, Ok! 80,·C 
Sanpoil-Nespelem, see Colville Reservation, Confederated Tribes Santa Ana, Pueblo de, see Pueblos de Zia, Jemez and Santa Anna, Dk! 137 Santa Clara, Pueblo of, see Pueblo of Santa Clara, Ok! 356 Santo Domingo, Pueblo of, see Pueblo of Santo Domingo, Okt 355 Santee, see Sioux Dkts, 74, 74-B, 104, and mention of the Santee Sioux in findings on compromise settlement of certain claims of the 
Mississippi Sioux at 18 Ind. Cl Comm 477 (1967) Sauk, see Suiattle-Sauk, Okt 97 




Alphabetical Index of Indian Claims Commission Cases 
Through September 1, 1978-Continued 

Tr
Vol. Page Decision 	Date Disposition
Tribe
Se
Schllgthticoke, of Kent, unnumbered 	Order dismissing petition 9/9/58 Dismissed 
F11
Connecticut, Dkt. 112 147 C.C. 656 	Appeal dismissed 10/16/59 
lei 
Seminole Nation, Dkt. 53 2 115 	Findings on the merits 4/22152 Dismissed 
122 	Opinion 4/22/52 Conclusions of law & final order dismissing petition 4/22/52 
125 CC. 375 Affirmed 	6/2153 
Seminole Indians, of unnumbered 	Order sustaining plaintiffs' motion to strike Preliminary 
Florida, Dkts. 73 & 73-A 	motion to quash the cause of the Seminole matter-8ee plaintiffs in Dkts. 73 & 73..A filed by Ingraham disposition of Billie, et ai, as the General Council of the these cases Miccosukee Seminole Nation 4/8/55 below 
137 CC. 161 Appeal dismissed 1215/56 355 US. 843 Certiorari denied 10/14/57 
Seminole Indians of 13 326 Findings -Title 5/8/64 $16,000,000.00 Florida, Dkt, 73, & 342 Opinion 5/8/64 for land to Seminole Nation of Interlocutory order 5/8/64 ~aintiffs in Oklahoma, Dkt. 151 180 C.C. 375 Affirmed 6/9/67 kts. 73 & 151 
19 179 Additional findings -Boundaries 6/28/68 187 Opinion 6/28/68 Second interlocutory order 6/28/68 
unnumbered 	Order in Dkts. 73 & 73·A separating from the petition in Dkt. 73 the claim for compensation for Macomb's area or "Reservation" & making this claim an integral part of the petition in Dkt 73-A 8/13/68 
19 440 	Decision in Dkts" 73, 73-A, & 151 on motion to intervene by Miccosukee Tribe of Indians of Florida, et al. 9/17/68 Interlocutory order & order denying Miccosukee motion to intervene 9/17/68 
23 	108 Opinion -Value 5/13170 115 Additional findings 5/13170 134 Order [and interlocutory award] 5/13170 
24 1 Opinion -Offsets 10/22170 14 Dissenting opinion 10/22170 17 Additional findings , 10/22170 20 Final award 10/22170
197 C.C 350 Remanded 	2/18/72 
unnumbered 	Order consolidating Dkts. 73 & 151 with Dkt. 280 (Creek Nation East of the Mississippi) for trial on issue of aboriginal title to overlap area 3/15/72 
31 	Opinion in Dkts, 73 & 151, & 280 on Creek motion to amend petition & Seminole motion to dismiss & for summary judgment 7/5/73 
9 	Order denying motion to amend petition & holding in abeyance ruling on motion for summary judgment 7/5/73 
203 CC. 754 Appeal by Creek Nation East dismissed 2111174 
35 7 	Order dismissing claims under Dkt. 280 & severing Dkt 280 from consolidation with Dkts 73 & 151 9/13174
35 117 Order denying motion of Creek Nation East for reconsideration 11/13174 207 CC. 1009 Commission's order affirmed & appeal by Creeks East dismissed 6127175 
207 Cc. 1009 Rehearing denied 10/3m 38 92 Order admitting exhibits & for other purposes 4123176 38 62 Findings .. Compromise settlement 4/27/76 
91 Final award 	4/27/76 

Alphabetical Index of Indian Claims Commission Cases 



Through September 1, 1978-Continued 
1ribe Vol. Page Dedlion 	Date Disposition 
Seminole Indians of 22 448 Opinion on defendant's motion to strike 2/18170 $50,000,00 for Florida, Dkt. 73-A, 450 Order directing that documents be filed by difference in see prior decisions plaintiff 2118170 value of some 
relating to Dkt. 73-A 25 25 Opinion on title & related issues 3/24nt 99,200 acres of above under Seminole 39 Findings 3/24nt Seminole Indians of Florida, 53 Order dismissing claim in Count I of the reservation land Dkts 73 & 73-A; & petition respecting the 5-million acre tract in Mom'oe Seminole Indians of known as the Macomb area or "reservation" County, Florida, Florida, Dkt. 73, && ordering that the claim in Count II of the exchanged for Seminole Nation of petition arising from the exchange of the some 104,800 Oklahoma, Okt. 151 99,200 acre reservation in Momoe County acres of land in 
for the 104,800 acre Broward County Florida's reservation be scheduled for further' hearing 3/24nl Broward & Palm Beach Counties unnumbered Order denying plaintiff's motion for leave to amend petition to conform to the evidence 5117172 unnumbered Order denying defendant's motion to report dismissal of Count I of Okt. 73-A to Congress 5117n2 
unnumbered 	Order denying plaintiff's motion to modify & supplement findings I to 21, inclusive, & for rehearing 5/17n2 
200 C.C 417 Appeal dismissed 	1/18m 
c.c. Rehearing denied 	4/27n3 
33 70 	Order denying plaintiff's motion for an order supplementing orders of 3/24nt & 5117172, subdividing Okt, 73-A [striking therefrom the Macomb area claim designated as Count I & tequiring said claim to be refiled pro forma in its entirety under a new petition assigned Okt, 73-B] & setting trial date in Dkt. 73·A 1/16174 
35 298 	Order denying plaintiff's motion requesting the Commission to notice judicially certain documents & for such other action on valuation date as the Commission may take 1/8/75 
40 	107 Additional findings on compromise settlement 4/20m 125 Final award 4/20m 
Seminole Indians of 33 70 	Order striking the Count I Macomb area claim Dismissed 
Florida, Dkt. 73-B 	from the petition in Dkt. 73·A, assigning this 
claim Dkt, 73·,B, & dismissing this claim 
effective 1/16/74 1/16174 

206 c.c. 876 Affirmed 3/14n5 206 C.C. 876 Rehearing denied 4/25175 
Seminole Indians, Loyal 6 127 Opinion 2127/58 Dismissed Group, represented by Order sustaining motion for summary Lincoln Burden, et ai, judgment & dismissing petition Okt. 121 
Seminole Nation, 4 66 Findings 12/5/55 $34,053.66 for Oklahoma, Okt 150 77 Opinion 12/5/55 the value of 320 87 Dissenting opinion 12/5/55 acres of land in Interlocutory order [& award] 12/5/55 excess of the 6 336 Additional findings -Offsets 6/4/58 amount for 345 Opinion 6/4/58 which the Conclusions of law & final award 6/4/58 Government 146 c.c. 171 Affirmed 6/3/59 sold these~acres for the Indians 
Seminole Nation, 10 450 Findings 8/22/62 Oismissed Oklahoma, Dkt 152 461 Opinion 8/22/62 Final order dismissing this suit 8/22/62 
Seminole Nation, 17 67 Findings .. Liability 6/24/66 Dismissed Oklahoma, Ok! 204 76 Opinion 6/24/66 Interlocutory order 6/24/66 26 7 Order denying motion to dismiss the claim, one CommiSSIOner dissenting 7/7/71 28 117 Opinion by two Commissioners 5/31/72 130 Opinion by one Commissioner concuning in the result 5/31/72 






Alphabetical Index of Indian Claims Commission Cases 
Through September 1, 1978-Continued 

Tribe--- Vol.  
Seminole Nation, Oklahoma, Dkt. 204 (cont.)  
29  
Seminole Nation, Dkt.205  204 C.C. 420 u..s. 420 u.,S. 12  
171 CC.  
Seminole Nation, Oklahoma, Dkt. 247  18 27  
29  
203 C,C. 37  
37  
38  
40  
42  
Seminole Nation, Oklahoma, Dkt. 248  14  

Page 
132 
137 144 
145 421 
655 907 984 
798 809 
477 
428 
141 155 157 175 422 
637 203 
499 
560 
231 234 202 
484 
505 
Seneca-Cayuga of unnumbered Oklahoma, Dkt, 341 
Seneca-Cayuga of 26 625 Oklahoma, Dkts" 635 341··A & B 
29 	262 275 287 
33 	436 
454 468 
36 	170 180 
Decision 
Dissenting opinion by one Commissioner concurred in by another Preliminary statement & findings Order vacating Commission's findings, opinion, & interlocutory order of 6/24/66 Order dismissing petition Order denying plaintiff's motion for rehearing, two Commissioners dissenting Affirmed Centiorari denied Rehearing denied 
Findings 
Opinion 
Final order dismissing petition 
Affirmed 

Per curiam opinion on defendant's motion for summary judgment Order denying motion Opinion Dissenting opinion Findings Final order of dismissal Order denying plaintiff's motion for rehearing, two Commissioners dissenting Affirmed in part, reversed in part & remanded Order determining valuation date & for other purposes Order rescinding order of 1/28/76 (37 Ind., CI. Comm, 203), stating Commission's conclusions on certain issues, & for other purposes Order denying plaintiffs motion for rehearing as to matters determined in order of 3/17/76 Opinion on offer of proof Order rejecting plaintiff's offer of proof Order certifying and transferring case to Court of Claims 
Findings 
Opinion 
Final award 

Order dismissing petition [a)) causes of action having been separated or stricken from the petition & assigned Dkts" 341-A through 341-E] 
Opinion -Liability Findings Interlocutory order Opinion -Accounting claims Additional findings Interlocutory order & award on accounting claims Opinion on value oflands involved & related issues Additional findings Interlocutory order expressing finding of no damages sustained on sale of the lands & no entitlement to a recovery on this part of the case Findings on final award Final award 
5/31/72 5131/72 
5/31/72 5/31/72 
1/26/73 6/19/74 1/27/75 3/17/75 
11/7/63 11/7/63 11/7/63 6/11/65 
6/30/67 6/30/67 3/24/72 3/24/72 3/24/72 3/24/72 
1/26/73 2/20/74 
1/28/76 
3/17/76 
7/21/76 
6/22177 6/22177 
7113/78 
12/23/64 12/23/64 12/23/64 
9/4/58 
12/29171 12/29171 12/29171 12/7/72 12/7/72 
12/7/72 
4/4/74 4/4/74 
4/4/74 6/11/75 6/11/75 
Date Disposition 

1 
5 
5 
( 
5 
5 Dismissed 
Transferred to 
Court of Claims 

$63,680.00 additional compensation for oil & gas lease covering 320 acres ofland 
Dismissed 
$43,215,58 in principal & interest recovered on accounting claims in Dkts. 341-A & B 

Seneca-Cayuga of Oklahoma, Dkt. 341-C, see Chippewa, Saginaw. Dkt. 13-E 	Dismissed 


~s 
nd 
Alphabetical Index of Indian Claims Commission Cases 
Through September 1, 1978-Continued 

Tribe Vol. Page 	Decision Date Disposition 
Seneca-Cayuga of Oklahoma, Dkt. 341-D, see Chippewa, Saginaw, Dkt I3-F 	Dismissed 
Seneca-Cayuga of unnumbered 	Order dismissing the cause of action Dismissed 
Oklahoma, Dkt. 341-E 	designated sixth claim of the petition 
[in DkL 341, which claim was stricken 
therefrom & assigned DkL No. 341-E] 9/4/58 

Seneca-Cayuga of Oklahoma, see also Cayuga, Dk! 343, & Six Nations, et al., Dkts 84,89, & 344 
Seneca Nation, Dk!. 77 unnumbered Order sustaining motion to dismiss petition 6/12/51 Dismissed 
122 CC. 163 Mfirmed 4/8/52 

Seneca Nation, Dkt. 342 unnumbered 	Order dismissing original petition [the 12 Dismissed 
claims pleaded therein having been severed & 
stricken therefrom & refiled, the first 4 in Dkt. 
342-A, & the remaining 8 in Dkts 342-B 
through 342··1] 10/3/60 

Seneca Nation, 12 755 Findings -Liability 10/24/63 $5,466,615.04 Dkt. 342-A; & 780 Opinion 10/24/63 in Dkts. 342-A Tonawanda Band of Final order dismissing petitions 10/24/63 & 368-A for Seneca Indians, 173 Cc. 917 Affirmed in part, reversed in part & remanded 12/17/65 land Dkt.. 368-A 28 12 Opinion -Value & consideration 5/3m 
42 Fmdings 5/3m 90 Order vacating finding of fact [entered on 
10/24/63], & interlocutory order 5/3m 28 233 Order denying motion for rehearing 7/6m 29 169 Final award II/22m 
Seneca Nation, Dkts. 18 412 Order sustaining defendant's motion to For land: 342-B, C, D, E, F, & I; and dismiss for lack of prosecution, & dismissing $101,000.00 in Tonawanda Band of the petitions in Dkts. 342-B, 342-C, 342-D, Dkts.342-B & C Seneca Indians, Dk!. 368 & 368 5/11/67 & 368; 
18 424 	Ordersettingaside orderof5/11/67dismissins $2,650..00 in petitions & allowing plaintiffs to file propose Dkt. 342..F; & findings of fact & brief 6/19/67 $79,320.00 in 
20 177 	Opinion in Dkts.. 342-B, C, & D, & Dkt. 368 on DkL 342-{ title & related issues 12/30/68 Dismissed: Dkts. 
186 	Findings in same dkts. 12/30/68 342-D & 342-E Interlocutory order in Dkts. 342-B & D, & 368, & order dismissing the petition in Dkt. 342-D 12/30/68 
28 12 	Opinion on value & consideration issues in, among others, the dkts. on the left, except 342-D 5/3n2 
42 Findings in same dkts. 5/3n2 92 Interlocutory order [and award] in Dkts. 
342-B, C, & 368 5/3n2 94 Final order dismissing claim in Dkt. 342-£ 5/3n2 95 Interlocutory order [and award] in Dk! 342-F 5/3n2 
28 96 Order denying motion to dismiss petition in DkL 342-1 97 Interlocutory order [and award] in DkL 342-1 5/3n2 
33 	390 Final award in Dkts 342-B, C, & 368 3/13n4 392 Final award in Dk!. 342-F 3/13n4 393 Final award in Dkt. 342-1 3113n4 
Seneca Nation, Dk!. 342-0 39 355 	Findings on compromise settlement 2/3m $600,000.00 for 
369 Final award 2/3m 	settlement of claims for an accountin~ of proceeds Irom land leases & claim for compensation for land covered 
by leases 

Seneca Nation, Dkt. 342-H 12 552 Findings .. Liability 8/30/63 Dismissed 563 Opinion 8/30/63 Final order dismissing petition 8/30/63 173 c.c. 912 Affirmed 12/17/65 



Alphabetical Index ofIndian Claims Commission Cases 
Through September 1, 1978-Continued 

Tribe Vol. Page Decision Seneca Nation, see also Six Nations, et al., DKts. 84, 89, & 344 Shasta, Dkt. 333, see California Indians, Dkts. 31 & 37 
Shawnee of Oklahoma, 40 
et a/." Dkt. 64; & Shawnee, 
Eastern, of Oklahoma, 
et al., Dkts, 335 & 338. 
Prior decisions are under 
Chippewa, Saginaw, Okt. 
13·G 

161 Findings on compromise settlement 17,3 Final award 
Shawnee of Oklahoma, et al., Dkt. 64-A, see Chippewa, Saginaw, Okt. 13-F 
Shawnee, Absentee of 6 337 Findings 
Oklahoma, et a/.. , Okt 334, 395 Opinion 
Amended Interlocutory order [and award] Final judgment 151 C.C 700 Modified & affirmed 366 US. 924 Certiorari denied unnumbered Amended final judgment 
Shawnee, Absentee of 12 Oklahoma, et al., Dkt: 334-A 
165 c.e, 
Shawnee, Absentee of 12 Oklahoma, et a/.., Okt. 334-B 
165 ce, 
2 
25 
161 Findings 174 Opinion Final order dismissing petition 510 Affirmed (Appeal No. 6-63) 
180 Findings 191 Opinion Final order dismissing petition 510 Mfirmed in part, reversed in part & remanded (Appeal No. 7-63) 18 Opinion on plaintiffs' motion for 
determination of certain issues 
25 Additional findings 
27 First interlocutory order 

311 Per curiam opinion on compromise settlement 314 Findings on compromise settlement 324 Final award 
Shawnee, Eastern of  unnumbered  Order dismissing petition  
Oklahoma & Shawnee,  
Absentee of Oklahoma,  
et al., Okt. 336  
Shoshone of Wind River Reservation, Wyoming, Dkt.63  464  Per curiam opinion on defendant's motion to require J?laintiffto separately state their claims Order directing separation of causes of action  
[requiring plaintiff to file an amended petition  
setting forth in separate counts the causes of  
action set forth in said petition]  
3  313 333  Findings Opinion  
unnumbered  Interlocutory order [and award] Order of final judgment [entered upon joint  

Shoshone of Wind River 3 Reservation, Wyoming, Dkt, 157 
14 
Shoshone of Wind River II Reservation, Wyoming, Dkt. 326, & Shoshone Nation or Tribe, Dkt. 367 
motion of the parties] 
380 	Opinion on defendant's motion for summary judgment 
393 	Dissenting 0Einion Order on de endant's motion for summary judgment, etc. 
729 Findings on compromise settlement 744 Opinion Final judgment 
387 	Findingsontitlephase ofaboriginallandclaim determining, inter alia, that within the claimed ar'ea in aboriginal times there were four tribes or identifiable groups of Shoshone Indians, each of which held Indian title to a separate & distinct area of land 
Date  Disposition  TI  
6/3/77 6/3177  $1,745,146.86 in settlement of Shawnee Dkts. 64 & 335, & Shawnee portion of Dkt. 338--for land  S R D N (c S1 F· 3; S: 3; D  
6/19/58 6/19/58 6/19/58 7/27/59 11/2/60 5/15/61 5/29/61  $1,269,338..02 for land  01 c( OJ 01 D  
3/22/63 3/22/63 3/22/63 4/17/64  Dismissed  
3/29/63 3/29/63 3/29/63  $300,000,,00 for land  
4/17/64  
11/13/69 11/13/69 11/13/69 5/19171 5/19171 5/19171  
11/28/68  Dismissed  
1/2/51  $433,013,,60 for land  
1/2/51 8/20/54 8/20/54 8/20/54  
4/22/57  
1118/54 11/8/54 11/8/54 2/24/65 2/24/65 2/24/65  $120,000.00 for gold removed from reservation land  
10/16162  Dkt. 326 closed after all claims severed out & redocketed in Okts.326-A through K. See  




Alphabetical Index of Indian Claims Commission Cases 
Through September 1, 1978-Continued 

in 
on or' 
n 
Tribe 	Vol. Page Decision 
Shoshone of Wind River  417  
Reservation, Wyoming, Dkt. 326, & Shoshone  unnumbered  
Nation or Tribe, Dkt. 367  
(cont.)  
Shoshone-Bannock Tribes,  19  3  
Fort Hall, Idaho, Dkts.  34  
326·D, E, F, & G;  
Shoshone Tribe, Dkt.  
326-H; Bannack Tribe,  
Dkt. 366; Shoshone Nation  
or Tribe, Dkt, 367;  
consolidated; see findings,  
opinion, & interlocutory order of 10/16/62 under Dkts. 326 & 367, above  
Shoshone, Western  23  70  
(Temoak Bands suing on  
behalf of), Dkt. 326-A; Shoshone-Bannock Tribes,  '86  
Fort Hall, Idaho, Dkt  31  427  
326-C  
545  
551  
557  
559  

unnumbered 
33 	417 
435 
207 C.c., 369 
207 COC. 369 425 U.S. 911 39 239 
41 	304 
Shoshone, Goshute, 33 130 Dkt 326-B 141 
unnumbered 
Shoshone, Goshute, unnumbered Dkt, 326-1, 31 225 see findings, opinion & order of 10/16/62 252 under Shoshone of Wind 256 River Reservation, 307 Wyoming, Dkt 326, & 32 230 Shoshone Nation or Tribe, Dkt. 367, for the title phase 206 c.c. 401 of this case Opinion Interlocutory order Order closing Dkt. 326 [all claims having been severed out of Dkt. 326 & assigned Dkts. ,326-A through K] 
Findings on compromise settlement Opinion Final judgment in consolidated Dkts. 326-.0, 326-E, 326-F, 326-G, 326-H, 366, & 367 
Opinion in Dkt 326-A on plaintiff's motion for partial summary judgment in respect to certain accounting exceptions Order in Dkt. 326-A Opinion in Dkts, 326-A & 22-G (Mescalero Apache) regarding, inter alia, obligation to make Indian trust funds productive Concurring opinion Dissenting opinion Order in Dkt. 326-A Order in Dkt 22-G Order & pretrial notice in Dkt 326-C holding holding that the opinion of 10/4173 in Dkts 326-A & 22-G (31 Ind CL Comm 427) constitutes the law of the case in Dkt. 326-C Opinion in Dkt. 326,A on plaintiff's motion for rehearing Order in Dkt, 326-A denying motion for rehearing Affirmed in part, reversed in part & remanded (Appeal No, 2-74, Dkt. 22-G; Appeal No. 10-74, Dkt 326-C; & Appeal No 12-74, Dkt, 326-A) Rehearing denied Certiorari denied Order certifying & transfening Dkt 326-C to Court of Claims Order certifying & transferring Dkt, 326-A to Court of Claims 
Opinion Order partially granting plaintiffs motion for supplemental accounting & denying defendant's motion to dismiss Order suspending further action pending completion of settlement negotiations 
Report to the Commissioner Opinion on date of extinguishment of aboriginal title & value Concuning opinion Findings Interlocutory order Order denying defendant's motion for rehearing Affirmed 
Date 	Disposition 
10/16/62 	decisions in 
10/16/62 	these dockets & the disposition of Dkt. 367 
713/68 	below. 
2/13/68 $15,700,000,00 2113168 for settlement of an accounting 
2113/68 	claim in Dkt, 
326-D & land 
claims in the 
remaining 
consolidated 
dockets 

Dkts. 326-A & 

326-C were 
4129170 transferred to 
4/29170 the Court of 

Claims 

10/4/73
10/4/73 
10/4/73 
1014/73 
10/4/73 

l/16n4 
4/4174 
4/4174 

7/11175 10/3175 415176 
12/15176 
518176 

2/14174 	Settled with Dkt 326·J, see below 
2/14174 
517175 

10113/69 	Settled with 
Dkt. 326·B, 8/9/73 see below 8/9/73 8/9/73 8/9/73 
11114/73 
3/19175 






Alphabetical Index of Indian Claims Commission Cases 


Through September 1, 1978-Continued 

Vol.
Tribe 
-----~.__. 
Shoshone, Goshute, Dkts. 37 326-.B & 326-J 
Shoshone, Lemhi, Dkt. 326-1, see findings, opinion, & order of 10/16/62 under Shoshone of Wind River Reservation, Wyoming, Dkt. 326, & Shoshone Nation or Tribe, Dkt. 367, for the title phase of this case  24 26  
Shoshone, Western Identifiable Group (represented by Temoak Bands), DkL 326-K, see findings, opinion & order of 10/16/62 under Shoshone of Wind River Reservation, Wyoming, Dkt. 326, & Shoshone Nation or Tribe, Dkt. 367, for the title phase of this case  29 29 35 209 c.c. C.c. 429 U.S. 40  
40  
40  
Shungnak, Native Village of, Dkt, 286  28  

Siletz, Confederated Tribes, see Tillamook Sioux Tribe, et at.., Dkt. 74 2 
146 F,Sup. 182 C.C. 
15 
Page 
41 58 
482 485 498 80 
5 
60 
124 
472 
457 
478 
43 
885 
305 
311 
317 
318 
388 
453 
334 
646 
671 
2"~
..~ 
912 
577 
599 
Decision 
Findings on compromise settlement Final award 
Per curiam opinion on compromise settlement Findings Final award Order dismissing "Petition in Intervention" 
Opinion .. Valuation issues Additional findings on value Interlocutory order Order denying defendant's motion for rehearing Opinion on petition by Western Shoshone Legal Defense & Education Association, an unincorporated group, & Frank Temoke, for a stay ofthe proceedings & for leave to present an amended claim Order denying petition to stay proceedings & present an amended claim & for other purposes Affirmed Rehearing denied Certiorari denied Order denying motions to stay proceedings & for other purposes Opinion Order granting leave to file & denyin~ defendant's second motion for reheanng Opinion -Offsets Additional findings Final award 
Order granting defendant's motion to dismiss & dismissing the claims in this case 
Findings Opinion Conclusions of law & judgment dismissing petition Affirmed Opinion of 1117156 vacated & case remanded to the Commission (as indicated in the Court's summary of proceedings, published in 1968) Findings in Dkts. 74, 35().·B & C, 322-A & 221-A Opinion on Sioux (Dkt. 74) motion for determination of certain title matters Order defining boundary of the area recognized by Fort Laramie Treaty of September 17, 1851, as belonging to the "Sioux or Dacotah Nation" 
Date 1115175 
11/5175 

3/8171 3/8171 3/8171 8/5171 
10/11172 
10/11172 
10/11172 
2/21/73 
2/20175 
2120175 
2/18176 4/23176 
10/12176 
8/15177 
8/15177 
8/15177 
8/15177 
8/15177 
8/15177 

8/16172 
4/5/54 4/5/54 
4/5/54 
11/7/56 
11/5/58 
8/27/65 
8/27/65 
8127/65 
Disposition 
$7,300,00000 
Si
for settlement 
(c
of accounting 
claims in Dkt. 
326·B, & claims 
in Dkt. 326-J for 
compensation 
for aboriginal 
lands, & 
minerals re­moved there­from prior to 
extinguishment 
of claimant's 
aboriginal title 

$4,500,000.00 
for land 

Pending at date 
hereof on appeal 
in the Court of 
Claims from 
Commission's 
final award of 
$26,145,189.. 89 
representing 
compensation 
for aboriginal 
land & profits 
lost from ores 
mined there­from before 
July I, 1872 

Dismissed 
On the date hereof appeal time was running from a final award in Dkl. 74 of $43,949,700..00 for the value of Sioux interests in lands extinguished under the Treaty of April 29, 1868, 15 Stat. 635 
\ 




Alphabetical Index of Indian Claims Commission Cases Through September 1, 1978-Continued 
Date Disposition 
Page Decision
Vol.
Tribe Opinion in Dkt 74, et aL,on motion to receive 
19 271 	7/3/68
74
Sioux Tribe, et al., Dkt 	Fort Berthold exhibit 
, 	7/3/68
(cont..) 	Order admitting additional evidence Order in Dkts 74 & 74-B setting questions for 
unnumbered 	10/29/68
determination 
Opinion on plaintiffs' motion to modify Fort
21 371 	9/10/69
Laramie boundary determination of 8/27/65 Order amending findings & interlocutory 
'I' 
381 	9/10/69
order
Opinion in Dkt 332-C on motion by plaintiff's 
22 344 	12/17/69
in Dkt 74 to intervene 
Interlocutory order granting in part & denying
354 	12/17/69
in part the motion to intervene 
Opinion on scope & meaning of articles II & 

23 358 	7/8m
16 of the Treaty of April 29, 1868 
7/8170

Interlocutory order 
369 
Opinion (in Dkts 74, 221-A, 350-B & C) ..
23 419 	8/26170
Teton & Yanktonai Sioux aboriginal title area 
8/26170

428 Findings 8/26170440 
Interlocutory order 
Opinion in Dkts 74 & 74··B on plaintiff's'
98
24 motions for, inter alia, modification of order 
11130170 

of 7/8170
Order amending interlocutory order & denying
105 	11/30170
other motions 
Opinion in Dkts. 74 & 332-C on respective
147
24 interests of the Teton & Yankton SIOUX 
1212170

divisions in Fort Laramie treaty land 
1212170

Additional findings 
161 	12/2170
Interlocutory order 
175 	12/2170
Order admitting exhibits 
177 
Opinion in Dkt 332-C on Yankton Sioux lands 
24 208 	12/14170
east of the Missouri in South Dakota 12/14170 
218 Findings
Interlocutory order -Intervention of Dkt 74
236 	12/14170
plaintiffs dismissed 
0hinion in Dkts.. 74 & 332-C on motions for 
364
24 re earing & modification of opinion, findings, 
1/6171

& order of 8/26/70
Order denying motions for rehearing &
373 	1/6171
modification of order 
Opinion in Dkts. 74, 350-B & C, etal ..,­
25 179 	3/30171
Fort Berthold overlap 
3/30171 

191 Findings
Final order dismissing claim in DkL 35().·B, &
212 	3/30171
interlocutory order in Dkt 350··C Opinion in Dkts 74 & 332-C on motion for 
27 49 	3/1172
rehearing 
3/1172

Order denying motion for rehearing 
58 
Opinion on plaintiffs' motion for leave to
27 79 	3/8172
amend petition 
3/8172

Order granting leave to amend petition 
87 	6/23172
Opinion in Dkts. 74 & 332-C 
204
28 Order denying Dkts. 332-C plaintiffs' motion 
215 	6/23172
to strike notices of appeal
Order denying defendant's motion to dismiss
217 	6/23172
Dkt 74 
6/23172Order to the Clerk of Commission

218 
Order denying defendant's motion fOI
219 	6/23172
rehearing & consolidation 
7/19174

Affirmed in part, reversed in part, & remanded
148
205 C.C. 
Defendant's motion for rehearing en bane
205 c..c.. 148 	10/4174
denied 	7/15/76
Opinion .. Value
38 469 	7/15176
Additional findings 
487 	7/15176
Interlocutory order & award
532 
Opinion in Dkts 74 & 332-C on remanded
454
40 matter of apportionment of FOlt Laramie 
8/25177

Treaty lands 8/25177 
476 Findings 



Alphabetical Index of Indian Claims Commission Cases 


Through September 1, 1978-Continued 
Tribe Vol. Page Decision 	Dale Disposilion 
Sioux Tribe, el al." Dkt. 74 518 Orderreenterin~ order of )2/2/70 & di sso) ving 
(cont.) consolidation 0 Dkt. 74 & 332-C 8/25m 
41 160 Opinion in Dkts" 74 & 332-C on Dkt. 74 

plaintiffs' motion for rehearing 12/27m 167 Amended findings 12/27m 170 Order granting motion for rehearing & 
interlocutory order 12/27m 41 172 Order amending order of 12/27/77 1/6/78 42 208 Opinion on defendant's motion to enter 
adjustments in valuation award 7/19178 213 Order granting in part, denying in part defendant's motion 7/19/78 
42 214 	Opinion on plaintiffs' motion that no offsets, either payments on the claim or gratuities, be deducted from the award in this case 7/19/78 
233 Additional findings 7/19/78 256 Order granting plaintiffs' motion 7/19178 42 257 Final award 7/19178 
Sioux Tribe, el al." unnumbered 	Order striking the petition 1130/62 Disposed of by 
Dkt.74-A unnumbered 	Order striking amendments to amended striking 
petition in Dkt. 74-A & defendant's tentative 
answer thereto [& confirming "that said 
Docket No. 74-A has been stricken by order 
of this Commission dated January 30, 1962"] 4/5/62 

Sioux Nation, el al.. unumbered Order in Dkts. 74 & 74-B setting questions for Transferred to Dkt. 74-B determination 10/29/68 Court of Claims 
24 98 	Opinion in Dkts, 74 & 74-B on plaintiffs' upon the filing motions for, inter alia, modification of order on 4/3178 of of 7/8170 in Dkt. 74 (23 Ind. CL Comm. 358, plaintiffs' notice 369) 11130170 of application 
105 Order amending interlocutory order & denying for review other motions 11130170 pursuant to 28 425 Opinion on defendant's motion to dismiss all Public Law claims but one in this docket 9/13172 95-243, approved 432 Order denying defendant's motion 9113172 March 13, 1978, 
29 180 	Opinion on plaintiffs' motions to amend 92 Stat. 153 petition & for clarification of opinion of 9113/72 11129172 
187 	Order granting leave to amend petition & denying motion for clarification 11129172 
3.3 	151 Opinion on valuation & related issues 2/15174 236 Opinion dissenting in part 2/15174 243 Fmdings 2/15174 362 Interlocutory order [& award] 2/15174 
207 C.C. 234 Affirmed in part, reversed in part & remanded 6/25175 423 U.S. 1016 Certiorari denied 12/8175 
unnumbered 	Report of the Commissioner on issues in-respect to the value of rights of way obtained by the United States flom the Sioux by the Act of February 28, )977 5/20176 
unnumbered 	Order holding defendant's motion for final judgment in abeyance 11110176 
Sioux Tribe of Lower 2 183 Findings 5/29/52 Final order 
Brule Reservation, S" D., 189 Opinion 5/29152 finding no 
Dkt.78 Conclusions of law & judgment dismissing entitlement to 

petition 5/29/52 recover 125 C.C. 439 Reversed 515153 
4 250 Additional findings -Value 4/26/56 259 Opinion 4/26156 Interlocutorr; order 4/26/56 
9 538 	Additional mdings -Offsets 10/27/61 
544 	Opinion 10/27/61 Fmal order finding a balance in defendant's favor of $85,656,,83 & plaintiff's not entitled to recover 10/27/61 
161 ce, 413 Affirmed 4/5163 375 U.s. 825 Certiorari denied 10114/63 


Alphabetical Index of Indian Claims Commission Cases 
Through September 1, 1978-Continued 

Tribe  Vol  Decision  Date  Disposition  
Sioux of Santee Reservation, Nebraska, Dkt. 104  2  237  Pel' curiam opinion on defendant's motion for summary judgment dismissing the petition Order sustaining motion for summary judgment & dismissing plaintiffs' petition  10/17/52 10/17/52  Dismissed  
Sioux Tribe of Cheyenne River Reservation, S. D., Dkt. 114, see Dkt 192 of this claimant, below  12 21  541 52 66  Opinion in Dkts. 114, & Dkts .. 115 through 119 on procedure in accounting cases Order in same dkts., denying defendant's motion for more definite statement or for summary judgment, plaintiffs' motions for further accounting facts & ordering cause to proceed upon the filing of exceptions by plaintiffs Findings on compromise settlement Final judgment  8/29/63 8/29/63 6/18/69 6/18/69  $1,300,00000 for settlement of accounting claim  
Sioux Tribe of Crow Creek Reservation, S. D, Dkt 115, see opinion & order of 8/29/63 under Sioux Tribe of Cheyenne River Reservation, S.. D." Dkt 114, above  26 35 37 37 41  92 98 194 206 ~07 114 127 304  Opinion in Dkts. lIS, 116, 118, & 119 Order in same dkts, granting in part plaintiffs' motions to file amended exceptions, & denying plaintiffs' motions to file amendments to their accounting petitions Opinion Concurring opinion Interlocutory orderOrder vacatmg determination [at 35 Ind CL Comm. 194] of Commission concerning expenditure of tribal funds for educational purposes Order for supplemental accounting Order certifying & transferring case to Court of Claims  8/6m 8/6m 11122n4 ll/22/74 11/22/74 12/11/75 12/11/75 5/817S  Transfened to Court of Claims  
Sioux Tribe ofLower Brule Reservation, S,. D, Dkt. 116, see opinion & order of 8/29/63 under Sioux Tribe of Cheyenne River Reservation, S. D" Dkt 114, above  26 35 41  92 98 175 191 192 116 .304  Opinion Order Opinion Concurring opinion Interlocutory orderOrder vacatmg determination of Commission [at 35 Ind CL Comm. 175J concerning expenditure of tribal funds for educational purposes Order certifying & transfening case to Court of Claims  8/6m 8/6/71 11/22/74 llf22174 llf22/74 12/11/75 5/8/78  Transfened to Court of Claims  
Sioux Tribe of Pine Ridge Reservation, S. D, Dkt 117, see opinion & order of 8/29/63 under Sio\lx Tribe of Cheyenne River Reservation, S. D, Dkt. 114, above  26 35 37 37 37 39 41  100 152 172 173 lIS 128 624 79 304  Order granting in part plaintiffs' motion to file amended exceptions, & denying plaintiffs motion to file amendments to accounting petition Opinion Concurring opinion Interlocutory order Order vacating determination of Commission [at 35 Ind CL Comm. 152J concerning expenditure of tribal funds for educational purposesOrder for supplemental accounting Order denying plaintiffs motion for summary judgment on exception No, 14 Order granting plaintiff"s motion to file amended exception 14 Order certifying & transferring case to Court of Claims  8/617111/22/74 11/22/74 11/22/74 12/11/75 12111/75 3/25/76 9/23/76 5/8ns  Transferred to Court of Claims  
Sioux Tribe of Rosebud Reservation, S.. D, Dkt. 118, see opinion & order of 8/29/63 under Sioux Tribe of Cheyenne River Reservation, S. D, Dkt, 114, above  26 35 37  92 98 123 149 150 120  Opinion Order OpinionConcuning opinion Interlocutory order Order vacating determination of Commission [at 35 Ind Cl. Comm. 123J concerning expenditure of tribal funds for educational purposes  8/6m 8/6171 11122/74 11/22/74 11/22/74 12/11/75  Transferred !o Court of ClaIms  
9  





Alphabetical Index of Indian Claims Commission Cases 




Through September 1, 1978-Continued 

Vol.
Tribe 
Sioux Tribe of Rosebud 37 
Reservation, S. D.. , Dkt. 
118, 39 

see opinion & order of 
8/29/63 under Sioux 41 
Tribe of Cheyenne 
River Reservation, S.. D., 
Dkt. 114, above 
(cont.) 

Sioux Tribe of Standing 26 
Rock Reservation, S. D., 
Dkt. 119, 34 
see opinion & order of 

8/29/63 under Sioux Tribe of Cheyenne River 37 Reservation, S.. D., Dkt. 114, above 
37 
37 
39 
41 
Sioux, Sisseton and 10 Wahpeton Bands or tribes, et al., Dkt. 142; Lower Sioux Indian Community, et al., Dkts. 359,360,361,362, & 363 
163 C.C. 163 C.C. 
Page 
625 
80 
304 
92 
98 230 252 253 107 113 
122 126 618 623 
73 78 
304 
137 
178 199 
329 329 
unnumbered 15 451 
unnumbered 16 678 
16 688 
175 C.C. 564 18 427 
18 477 
Decision 
Order denying plaintiff's motion for summary judgment on exception No. 14 Order granting plaintiff's motion to fIle amended exception 14 Order certifying & transferring case to Court of Claims 
Opinion Order Opinion Concurring opinion Interlocutory order Opinion Order vacating determination of Commission [at 34 Ind. CL Comm. 230, 241] concerning expenditure of tribal funds for educational purposes Opinion Order for supplemental accounting Opinion Order denying plaintiffs motion for summary 
jud~~ent on exception No. 16 OpmlOn Order granting plaintiff's motion to file amended exception 16 Order certifying & transferring case to Court of Claims 
Findings on title & related issues including title claims of the Yankton Sioux (Dkt. 332·A) to some of the land in suit Opinion Opinion concuning in part & dissentirg in part Interlocutory order Reversed in part & remanded Rehearing denied Order amending Commission's interlocutory order of 1/12/62 Per curiam opinion in Dkt. 363 on plaintiffs' "Motion for Findings in Accordance with Medawakanton and Wahpakoota Proposed Finding 16-A" Order denying plaintiffs' motion Order in Dkt. 359 granting motion of Sisseton and Wahpeton Bands for leave to intervene in Dkt. 359 & for other purposes Opinion in Dkts 142 & 362 regarding plaintiffs' motion for determination of 
questions of law, etc. 
Order granting plaintiffs' motion for 
determination of questions oflaw with respect 
to the Mississippi Sioux Treaties of 1851 
in Dkts. 142 & 362 
Order in Dkt. 359 granting Sisseton and 
Wahpeton intervenors' motion for summary 

judgment of title Reversed order of 1/12/62, above, but affirmed order of 11/25/59 in Dkts. 138 (Iowa, et a/..), 11-A & 332-A Interlocutory order apttroving compromise settlement & entry of mal judgments subject to dismissal of appeal No.. 8-66 in the Court of Claims Findings on compromise settlement of the claims in Dkts 142 & 359 through 363, excluding the general accounting claim denominated "Second Claim" in the first amended petition in Dkt. 363 
Date 

3/25n6 
9/23n6 
5/8/78 
8/6m 
8/6m 
7/11/74 
7/11n4 7/11n4 12/11175 
12/11/75 
12/11175 
12/11/75 3/25/76 
3/25n6 
9/23n6 
9/23/76 
5/8/78 
1/12/62 1/12/62 1/12/62 1/12/62 12/13/63 3/13/64 
6/11/64 
6/21/65 6/21/65 
6/21/65 
4/22/66 
4/22/66 
4/22/66 
5/13/66 
6/29/67 
7/25/67 
1/
Disposition 
Si W Tr L( C( 
(CI 
Transferred to 
Court of Claims 

Dkts. 142 & 359 
through 363, 
except the 
"Second Claim" 
in Dkt. 363, 
concluded by 
final judgments 
in settlement of 
claims for 
additional 
compensation 
for land, as 
follows: Dkt. 
142, to the 
Sisseton and 
Wahpeton 
Tribes of Sioux 
Indians 
$5,097,575 ..00; 
Dkt. 359, to the Sisseton and Wahpeton Tribes of Sioux Indians $776,46450; to the Medawakanton and Wahpakoota Tribes of Sioux Indians $776,464.50; 
Dkt. 360, to the Medawakanton Tribe of Sioux 
Indians $1,129,359.. 00; Dkt. 36/, to the 
Medawakanton Tribe of Sioux Indians $64,68000; 



Alphabetical Index of Indian Claims Commission Cases 
Through September 1, 1978-Continued 

Tribe Vol. Page 	Decision Date Disposition
._------------------------_. 
Sioux, Sisseton and 523 Opinion 7/25/67 Dkt. 362, to the Wahpeton Bands or Final judgments in Dkts. 142, 359 through Medawakanton Tribes, et aI" Dkt. 142; 363, except the general accounting claim in and Wahpakoota Lower Sioux Indian Dkt.363 7/25/67 Tribes of Sioux Community, et aI., Dkts. 18 639 Order amending Indian Claims Commission's Indians 359, 360, 361, 362, & 363 findings & opinion approving compromise $4,338,517 .00; 
(cont.) settlement 9/8/67 	Dkt., 363, to the Medawakanton and Wahpakoota Tribes of Sioux Indians $66,94000 See decisions below on causes involved in the "Second Claim" in Dkt 361. 
Sioux Tribe of 2 201 Opinion on defendant's motion for summary Dismissed 
Cheyenne River judgment of dismissal 6/4/52 
Reservation, S.. D" Order denying defendant's motion 6/4/52 
Dkt. 192, 5 165 Findings 3/29/57 
See Dkt. 114, of this 173 Opinion 3/29/57 

claimant, above Final order dismissing Retition 3/29/57 
unnumbered Order denying motion or rehearing 8/10/59 

Sioux Tribe of Fort Peck Reservation, Montana, intervenor in Dkt. 279-A, see Blackfeet and Gros Ventre Tribes, et al., Dkt. 279-A 
Sioux, Yankton, unnumbered Order dismissing petition [the causes therein Dismissed 
Dkt. 332 having been separated out & assigned Dkl., 
Nos. 332··A & 332-B] 9/30/60 

Sioux, Yankton, 13 25 Per curiam opinion on determination of the 	$1,250,000.00 
Dkt. 332-A 	article 2 line, 1825 Prairie de Chien Treaty, for land (Yank­
often referred to as the "Sioux-Sac & Fox ton interest in 
line" or "Yankton line" 11/18/59 Royce Area 151) 

unnumbered 	Order in Dkts, 138, 1I-A & 332-A amending finding 2, Dkts II-A & 138 re Yankton Sioux boundary 11/25/59 
10 137 	Findings in Mississippi Sioux Dkts. 142, 
et aI., & Dkt 332-A 1/12/62 178 Opinion1/12/62 199 Opinionconcuning inpart&dissentinginpart 1/12/62 
Interlocutory order in Mississippi Sioux dkts., & order dismissing Yankton Sioux claim for Royce Area 289 1/12/62 
175 c.c. 564 	Affirmed order of 11/25/59, reversed order of 1/12/62 5/13/66 
19 131 	Opinion on plaintiff's motion for summary judgment 4/24/68 Order granting plaintiff's motion for summary judgment on issue of title as to Royce Area 151 4/24/68 
unnumbered 	Order severing Royce Area 410 (N..D.. & SD 1) from Dkt 332-A & designating it Dkt 332-C 12/10/68 
20 252 Opinion on compromise settlement 1/28/69 255 Findings on compromise settlement 1/28/69 Final judgment 1/28/69 
Sioux, Yankton, 28 367 Findings on compromise settlement 9/8/72 $4,750,000.,00 in Dkt.332-B 385 Final award 9/8/72 settlement of 
29 143 	Order granting motion to sever claims for accounting an accounting for the period of July I, 1951, claims through to date, & for claims arising from Agree­6/30/51; remain­ment of 12/31/1892, 28 Stat 314, & to file ing claims amended petition asserting said claims in severed out & Dkt 332..D 11/9172 assigned Dkt. 
332-0 




Alphabetical Index of Indian Claims Commission Cases 
Through September 1, 1978-Continued 

T,.ibe Vol..
--'­
Sioux, Yankton, 15 
Dkt.332·C 
Note: This dkt. was 
created in 1968 when 
the claim in Dkt. 332-A 
relating to Royce Area 
410 was severed from 
Dkt. 332-A & assigned 
Dkt, 332-C (see order of 22 
12/10/68 under Dkt. 
332··A). 
24 
24 
24 
27 
28 
29 
205 C,c., 205 CC. 
40 
41 
43 
Sioux, Yankton, 29 Dkt.332-D 
37 
Page 
577 
599 
344 
354 
147 
161 175 177 208 
218 236 
364 
373 
49 
58 204 215 
218 219 
4 148 148 
454 
476 
518 
160 
167 
170 
172 
I 30 72 
143 
64 93 94 
Decision Date Disposition 
Findings in Dkts, 74, 350-B & C, 332-A & 221-A 8/27/65 Opinion on Dkt. 74 Sioux motion for determination of certain title matters 8/27/65 Order defining boundary of area recognized by Fort Laramie Treaty of September 17, 1851, as belonging to the "Sioux or Dacotah Nation" 8/27/65 Opinion on motion by DkL 74 plaintiffs to intervene 12/17/69 Interlocutory order granting in part & denying in part motion to intervene 12/17/69 Opinion on undivided interests of the DkL 74 Sioux & Yankton Sioux in Fort Laramie Treaty lands 12/2/70 Additional findings 12/2/70 Interlocutory order 12/2/70 Order admitting exhibits 12/2/70 Opinion on Yankton Sioux lands east of the Missouri in South Dakota 12/14/70 Findings 12/14/70 Interlocutory order [intervention of Dkt. 74 Sioux dismissed] 12/14/70 Opinion in Dkts.. 74 & 332-C on motions for rehearing & modification ofopinion, findings, 
& order of 8/26/70 in DkL 74 (23 Ind" CI. 
Comm, 419) 1/6/71 
Order denying motions for rehearing & 
modification of order 1/6/71 
Opinion in Dkts. 74 & 332-C on motion for 
rehearing 3/1172 
Order denying motion for rehearing 3/1172 
Opinion in Dkts 74 & 332·C 6/23172 
Order denying motion to strike notices of 
appeal 6/23/72 
Order to the Clerk of Commission 6/23172 
Order denying defendant's motion for 
rehearing & consolidation 6/23172
Opinion on defendant's motion to consolidate 
Dkts. 363 (2d claim) & Dkt. 332-C 10/4172 
Order denying motion to consolidate 10/4172 
Affirmed in part, reversed in part, & remanded 7/19/74 
Defendant's motion for rehearing en bane 
denied 10/4/74 
Opinion in Dkts" 74 & 332..C on remanded 
matter of apportionment of Fort Laramie 

Treaty lands 8/25/77 Findings 8/25/77 Order reentering order of 12/2/70 & dissolving consolidation of Dkts" 74 & 332-C 8/25/77Opinion in Dkts, 74 & 332-C on DkL 74 plaintiffs' motion for rehearing 12/27/77 Amended findings 12/27/77 Order granting motion for rehearing & interlocutory order 12/27/77 Order amending order of 12/27/77 1/6/78 Opinion-Value & offsets 8/31/78 Additional findings 8/31/78 Final award 8/31/78 
Order in Dkt, 332-B grantin~ motion to sever claims for an accountmg for the period of July I, 1951, to date, and for claims arising from Agreement of 12/31/1892, 28 StaL 314, & to file amended petition asserting said claims in DkL 332-D 11/9/72Opinion 11/20/75Opinion dissenting in part 11120/75Order to show cause why the claim for an accounting in respect to plaintiff's money & property during the period after 6/30/51 should not be dismissed, & for other purposes 11/20/75 On the date hereof appeal time was running from a final award in Dkt. 332-C of $15,269,924,,83 representing additional com­pensation for the Yankton Sioux interest in lands ceded under the Treaty of April 19, 1858, II StaL 743 
11 
Transferred to 
Court of Claims 
after dismissal 
of post 6/30/5 I 
accounting 
claims 
T, 
Si 
Dl 

(c, 

Si 
In 

M 
D 
C 

S l' 11 



g 

Alphabetical Index of Indian Claims Commission Cases 
Through September 1, 1978-Continued 

Tribe Vol. Page Decision 	Date Disposition 
Sioux, Yankton, 39 149 Opinion 11/12n6 
Okt, 332-0 157 Order making show cause order absolute & 
(conL) dismissing post-19S 1 accounting claim 11112n6 

158 Order striking plaintiff's motion for a call for documents 1l/12n6 42 202 Order celtifying & transfening case to COUlt of Claims 7/13n8 
Sioux, Lower Sioux 22 226 Opinion 12/10/69 $8,473,22126 in Indian Community in 231 Order 12/10/69 plincipal & in-Minnesota, et al., 30 463 Opinion -Valuation & damage issues 6/30m terest awarded Dkt. 363 (Second 498 Findings 6130m plaintiffs on Claim, Act of 19(4) 513 Interlocutory order 6/30m behalf of the 
33 	51 Opinion on payments on the claim 1/16n4 Sisseton & 63 Amendment to & additional findings 1I16n4 Wahpeton Bands 66 Order that the parties show cause why a of Sioux Indians 
final judgment may not be entered 11I6n4 for celtain Oevils 68 Order admitting exhibits 1/16n4 Lake Reserva· 33 389 Final award 2/27n4 tion lands & 
207 C.c. 492 Affirmed 7/11n5 	lands excluded from the reselva.. tion by sUlvey elrors 
Sioux, Lower Sioux 22 226 Opinion 10/10/69 $13,384,934,,00 Indian Community in 231 Order 10/10/69 awarded to the Minnesota, et ai" 26 267 Opinion 9/22nl plaintiffs on be-Okt. 363 (Second 270 Older granting plaintiffs' motion for leave half of the Claim, amended, to amend first amended petition, second Sisseton & Treaty of 1867, claim 9122nJ Wahpeton Bands Agreement of 1872) 29 Opinion in Okts" 363 (second claim) & as additional 
Ok! 332-C 10/4n2 compensation 4 Order denying defendant's motion to for lands ceded consolidate 1014n2 by the said Bands 
36 	472 Opinion _. Title & liability issues 9/25n5 under the Agree­484 Findings 9/25n5 ment of 496 Order 9/25n5 September 20, 
36 497 Order amending Conclusion I 10122n5 1872, Of this 37 491 Opinion on motions 3/12n6 total amount 41 1 Findings on compromise settlement 9/8n7 $13,129,66100 
16 Order approving compromise settlement 9/8n7 was included in 
e.c. 	Order, entered on joint motion, dismissing the final award of appeal No. 2-76 & remanding cause to 9/14n7, 8i the the Commission 9/12n7 remaining 
41 	18 Final award 9/14n7 amount of 
41 	139 Additional final award 12/1n7 $255,273,,00 was in the final award of 12/1n7, 
Sioux, Lower Sioux 36 295 Opinion -Accounting 8122n5 Transferred to Indian Community in 414 Older relating to accounting exceptions 8122n5 Court of Claims Minnesota, et al., 39 239 Order celtifying &. transferring to the Okt. 363 (claims for Court of Claims 12115n6 an accounting for money and for the misuse or mismanagement of money) See paragraph 6 of 
stipulation at 41 
Ind. CL Comm. 4 in 
findings of 9/8n7, 
under the Okt. 363 claim 
immediately above, 

Sisseton and Wahpeton, see Sioux, Sisseton and Wahpeton Bands or Tribes, et aI.., Okt. 142, et ai,,; Sioux, Lower Sioux Intt; Community in Minnesota, et ai., Okt. 363 (Second Claim, Act of 19(4), and Okt. 363 (Second Claim, amended, Treaty of I , Agreement of 1872) 
I 
97 





Alphabetical Index of Indian Claims Commission Cases 
Through September 1, 1978-Continued 

Vol.
Tribe 
----_. 
Six Nations, et al., 23 Dkt. 84; and Stoc~bridge Munsee Commumty, et aI.., Dkt. 300·B 
32 
Page Decision 	Date Disposition 
376 Opinion on accounting under certain 
a~reements & treaty provisions 387 Fmdings 401 Interlocutory order & award 440 Opinion on offsets 453 Additional findings 460 Final award 
8/11170 
8/11170 
8/11/70 12/28/73 12/28/73 12/28/73 
In satisfaction of accounting claims: $29,930.25 to plaintiffs in both dkts.,; & to the Seneca Nation, one of the plain­tiffs in Dkt. 84, an additional sum of $25,399.50 

Six Nations, et aI.., Dkt. 89, see Chippewa, Saginaw, Dkts. 13-E, 13-F, & n·G, & mention ofDkt. 89 under Miami, Oklahoma, Dkt. 67 
at 2 Ind, CI. Comm 617 
Six Nations, et al., 
Dkt. 344 
Skagit, Upper, Dkt. 92 
Skagit, Lower 
(Whidbey Island 
Skagits), Dkt, 294 
S'K1a1lam, Dkt. 134 
Skokomish, ef aI.., Dkt.26O 
Skokomish, Dkt. 296 
12 	86 98 
173 Cc. 	899 
8 	475 492 
13 	583 
591 
19 	496 
7 	292 313 
22 	28 35 51 
26 	325 
5 	680 697 
unnumbered 
23 	510 519 530 
28 	146 157 
39 	129 
m 
39 	134 140 143 
unnumbered 
6 	135 152 
9 	359 390 
12 	197 208 Findings -Liability Opinion Final order dismissing this suit in its entirety Affirmed 
Findings --Title Opinion Interlocutory order Findings on allocation of consideration under Point Elliott Treaty Opinion Order Final judgment [entered pursuant to stipUlation for compromise settlement] 
Findings --Title 
Opinion 
Interlocutory order 
Opinion on value 
Additional findings on value 
Order & interlocutory award 
Final award 

Findings -Title Opinion Interlocutory order Order reopening the record Opinion -Value Additional findings Interlocutory order & award Opinion Order denying defendant's motion for rehearing & amendment of findings, & amending findings Opinion Order denying plaintiffs motion for rehearing & amendment of findings Opinion -Offsets Additional findings Final award 
Order dismissing petition 
Findings --Title Opinion InterlocutoR; order Additional mdings -Value Opinion Second interlocutory order Findings on compromise settlement Opinion Final determination or judgment 
Skykomish, see Snoqualmie Tribe on its own behalf, and on relation of the Skykomish Tribe, Dkt. 93 
f t 
3/1/63 3/1/63 3/1/63 12/17/65 
3/25/60 
3/25/60 
3/25/60 
8/13/64 
8113/64 
8113/64 
9/23/68 
3/20/59 3/20/59 3/20/59 11/13/69 11/13/69 11113/69 
10113171 
12/2/57 
12/2/57 
12/2/57 
3/15/68 
10/1/70 
10/1170 
10/1/70 

617162 
617162 
1115/76 

1115/76 
11/5/76 

1115/76 1115/76 
3/30/53 
3/6/58 3/6/58 3/6/58 6/30/61 6/30/61 6130/61 5/24/63 5/24/63 5/24/63 Dismissed 
$385,471.42 for land 
$74,856.50 
for land 
$385,820.,00 for land 
Dismissed 
$373,577.00 for land 



h 
1­
,7 

Alphabetical Index of Indian Claims Commission Cases 
Through September 1, 1978-CoI}tinued 

lribe  Vol.  Page  
Snake or Piute Indians of former Malheur Reserva­tion in Oregon, Okt. 17  422 436  
125 e.e. 4  241 571a 608  

unnumbered 7 526 555 unnumbered 
Decision 
Findings -Liability 
Opinion 
Conclusions of law & judgment 
dismissing petition Reversed & remanded Amended findings -Title Opinion 
Interlocutory order 
Order amending finding No.3 as to description 
of claimed area 
Additional findings --Value 
Opinion 
Second interlocutory order 
Final judgment 
Snake, Yahooskin Band, see Klamath, Modoc and Yahooskin Band of Snake Indians 
Snohomish, Dkt 125 	4 7 
13 
IS 18 
Snoqualmie Tribe on its 9 own behalf, and on relation of the Skykomish Tribe, Okt.93 13 
15 
15 178 e.c. 
19 
549 
564 768 783 583 591 243 
245 134 144 
25 41 583 591 267 
282 308 
570 498 
Findings --Title Opinion Interlocutory order Additional findings -Value Opinion Second interlocutory order Findings on allocation of consideration under Point Elliott Treaty Opinion Order Additional findings Opinion Third interlocutory order Additional findings on compromise settlement Opinion Fmal judgment 
Findings -" Title Opinion Interlocutory order 
Findings on allocation of consideration under Point Elliott Treaty Opinion Order Per curiam opinion on plaintiff's motion to modify Commission's findings & order of 6/30/60 Order denying plaintiff's "Motion to Modify Commission's Findings and Order," & with­drawing the Commission's findings, opinion & interlocutory order of 6/30/60 & substituting in lieu thereof the findings, opinion, & inter­locutory order entered 5/7/65 Findings Per curiam opinion Interlocutory order Affirmed in part, reversed in part, & remanded Final judgment [entered pursuant to stipula­tion for compromise settlement] 
Date DilpO.lition 
12/29/50 $567,000.. 00 12/29/50 for land 
12/29/50 
6/2/53 

12/28/56 
12/28/56 
12/28/56 
2/4/57 

4/15/59 
4/15/69 
4/15/59 
12/4/59 
11/21/56 $136,165.79 11/21/56 for land 11/21/56 7/23/59 7/23/59 7/23/59 
8/13/64 
8/13/64 
8/13/64 
4/29/65 
4/29/65 
4/29/65 
3/30/67 
3/30/67 
3/30/67 


6/30/60 $257.698..29 6/30/60 for land 6/30/60 
8/13/64 8/13/64 8/13/64 
5/7/65 
517/65 517/65 517/65 5/7/65 2/17/67 
9/23/68 

Soboba Band, see California Indians, Soboba Band of Mission Indians, OkL 80-A, & Okts 80, 80-B, 80-C, & 80-0 under California Indians Southern Arapaho andCheyenne, see Cheyenne and Arapaho Southern Paiute, see Paiute Nation, Southern, et aL Southern Ute, see Ute, Southern 
Spokane, Dkts 331 & 331-A  9 163 e.e.  236 254 58  Findings in Dkt 331 on title issues Opinion in Okt. 331 Interlocutory order in Okt 331 Affirmed in part, reversed in part, & remanded  4/17/61 4/17/61 4/17/61 10/11163  $6,700,00000 for settlement ofa claim in OkL 331 for  
99  




Alphabetical Index of Indian Claims Commission Cases 
Through September 1, 1978-Continued 

Tribe 	Vol. Page 
Spokane, Dkts, 331 & 17 584 331-A 612 (cont.) 
Squaxin, Dkt. 206 21 	295 301 308 
29 	288 302 323 
34 	311 319 326 
208 CC. 	1031 
Steilacoom, Dkt. 208 II 	304 320 
29 	481 496 518 
34 	327 332 338 
208 C.C. 	1013 
Stillaguamish, Dkt. 207 13 	583 
591 
15 I 33 
19 	531 
22 	361 371 
Stockbridge Munsee 26 491 Community, et al., 499 Dkt.3oo 500 512 203 C.C.. 742 30 372 
Stockbridge Munsee 25 281 Community, et al., 293 Dkt.3OD-A 302 41 192 206 220 
Decision 
Findings on compromise settlement 
Opinion 
Final judgment 

Opinion -Title 
Findings 
Interlocutory order 
Opinion -Value 
Additional findings 
Interlocutory order 
Opinion -Offsets 
Additional findings 
Final award 
Affirmed 

Findings -Title 
Opinion 
Interlocutory order 
Opinion ,-Value & consideration 
Additional findings 
Interlocutory order 
Opinion .-Offsets 
Additional findings 
Final award 
Affirmed 

Findings on allocation of consideration under Point Elliott Treaty Opinion Order Findings -Title Opinion Interlocutory order Opinion on plaintiff's motion for rehearing Order denying rehearing Additional findings on compromise settlement Final judgment 
Opinion -Accounting Dissenting opinion Findings Order Affirmed Final award 
Opinion -Liability Findings Interlocutory order Opinion on scienter question Additional findings Interlocutory order 
Date Disposition 
V2I/67 
V21/67 
V21/67 
6/30/69 6/30/69 6/30/69 
12/8n2 
12/8n2 
12/8n2 
7131n4 
7/31n4 
7/31/74 
1/30n6 
9/21/62 9/21/62 9/21/62 3/14173 3/14173 3/14173 7/31/74 7/31/74 7/31n4 1/30/76 
8!13/64 8/13/64 8/13/64 2/26/65 
V26/65 
2/26/65 10/17/68 10/17/68 
1/8nO 
1/8/70 
IVI5171 12/15171 12/15171 12/15171 1/29173 5/30173 
4/28171 4/28171 4/28171 2/24/78 2/24n8 2/24/78 additional com-1 pensation for land, & settle-5 ment of a general 

(I 
accounting claim 
in Dkt. 331-A 

$7,661.82 
for land 

$9,146..32 
for land 

$48,570,,00 for settlement of claim for 
additional com­pensation for land 
$4,203.,09 for accounting 
Pending on date hereof 

Stockbridge Munsee Community, et al., Dkt. 3OO-B, see Six Nations, et at." Dkt. 84 
Stockbridge-Munsee Community, see EmigrantNewYorkIndians,Oneida ofWisconsin,andStockbridge-MunseeCommunity, Dkt., 75 
Strong, James, see Chippewa, Saginaw Suiattle-Sauk, Dkt. 97 2 
J33 CC. Suquamish, Dkt. 132 5 
324 327  Findings Opinion Conclusions of law & final order dismissing the claim  
57  Affirmed  
140 158  Findings ­Title Opinion Interlocutory order  

12/18/52 Dismissed 12/18/52 
12/18/52 
10/4/55 
3/25/57 $42,17049 3/25/57 for land 3/25/57 


Alphabetical Index of Indian Claims Commission Cases 
Through September 1, 1978-Continued 

Tribe Vol. Page Decision 	Date Disposition
---_._--------------------------
Suquamish, Dkt. 1.32 7 747 Additional findings -Value 7/10/59 
(cont.) 760 Opinion 7/10/59 
Second interlocutory order 7/10/59 

1.3 	583 Findings on allocation of consideration under Point Elliott Treaty 8/13/64 591 Opinion 8/13/64 Order 8/13/64 16 479 Additional findings on consideration 1/21/66 481 Opinion 1/21/66 Third interlocutory order 1/21166 
24 	34 Opinion -Offsets 10/22170 39 Additional findings 10/22170 49 Final judgment 10/22170 
197 CC. 	775 Affirmed 3/17/72 
SWinomish, Dkt. 233 13 583 Findings on allocation of consideration under $29,000.. 00 
Point Elliott Treaty 8/13/64 for land 
591 Opinion 8/13/64 
Order 8113/64 

26 	371 Opinion -Title 11/18/71 377 Findings 11/18/71 385 Interlocutory order 11/18/71 
28 	220 Additional findings on compromise settlement 7/6/72 231 Final award 7/6/72 
Swinomish Tribal unnumbered Order striking parts of petition 5/19/55 Dismissed 
Community, DkL 293 25 	465 Opinion 6/25/71 
468 Findings 6/25/71 
474 Order dismissing petition 6/25/71 

Taos, Pueblo of, see Pueblo of Taos, Dkts. 357 & 357-A 
Tatitlek Village, Alaska, 27 134 Order grunting defendant's motion to dismiss Dismissed 
Natives of, Dkt. 200 claim 3/15/72 

Tee-Hit-Ton, DkL 171 21 420 Order dismissing petition 6/14/68 Dismissed 
186 CC. 959 Affirmed 1/17/69 

Temoak Bands of Western Shoshone Indians, see Shoshone, Western, Dkt. 326-A, and Shoshone, Western Identifiable Group, Dkt. 
326-K 

Tenino Indians, see Warm Springs Reservation, Confederated Tribes, Dkt. 198 
Thompson, Clyde E, see California Indians, DkL 31 
Tigua Indian Community, Pueblo of, see Apache, Lipan and Mescalero, Dkt. 22-C 
Tillamook, Dkt. 238, see Kalapuya, et ai, Dkt. 238 
Tillamook, et aI., DkL 239 4 31 Findings ll/23/55 $416,240..85 57 Opinion 11/23/55 for land Interlocutory order [and award] 11/23/55 
unnumbered 	Order amending findings of fact, overruling plaintiffs' motion for final judgment & granting defendant extenslOn of time 2/5/57 
unnumbered 	Order of final judgment [entered upon joint motion pursuant to stipulation for entry of judgment] 6/17/58 
Tillamook Band of 526 Findings -Title 6/10/55 For land: Tillamooks, et aI., Dkt. 240 533 Opinion 6/10/55 $72,162.50 to Interlocutory order 6/10/55 Nehalem Band 11 1 Additional findings -Value & offsets 8/27/62 of Tillamooks, 26 Opinion 8/27/62 & $97,025..00 
Final award 8/27/62 	to Tillamook Band of Tillamooks 
Tlingit and Haida, et al., 28 168 Order granting defendant's motion to dismiss 617/72 Dismissed Dkt. 278 
101 




Alphabetical Index of Indian Claims Commission Cases 
Through September 1, 1978-Continued 

Tribe Vol. Page Decision Date 	Disposition 
Tlingit and Haida, et al., 20 508 Opinion on defendant's motion to dismiss 	Dismissed 
Dkt 278-A petition 5/14/69 
520 Order denying motion to dismiss 5/14/69 
521 Order denying plaintiffs' motion for an inter­
locutory order 5/14/69 28 169 Order granting defendant's motion to dismiss 6nm 
Tlingit and Haida and 32 273 Findings on compromise settlement II/26m 	$90,000.. 00 for 
Angoon Tribe, Dkt. 278-B 282 Final award II/26m 	settlement of damage claims stemming from a naval bombard­ment 
Tonawanda Band of Seneca Indians, Dkts. 368 & 368-A, see Seneca Nation, Dkts.. 342··A & 342··B 
Tonkawa, see intervenors in Apache, Lipan and Mescalero, Dkt 22-C, and Caddo Tribe of Oklahoma, et al.., Dkt. 226 
Tonto, see Apache, San Carlos, Dkt. 22-D, and Apache, Northern Tonto, Dkt. 22-J; and Apache, Northern Tonto, Yavapai, Dkt. n·} 
Tulalip Tribes, Inc., unnumbered Order dismissing petition 1/13/58 Dismissed 
Dkt.262 

Turtle Mountain, see Chippewa, Turtle Mountain Band, Dkt.. 113; and Chippewa, Red Lake, Pembina, and White Earth Bands, et al., DkL 18-A 
Tuscarora Nation, OkL 321 23 	140 Opinion -Liability 5/14nO $91,428.. 80 152 Findings 5/14nO for reversionary 164 Order 5/14nO interest in land 
29 	194 Opinion -Value II/29m204 Additional findings II/29m210 Interlocutory order II/29m
29 	471 Final award 2/21nJ 
Tuscarora Nation, Okt. 340 15 116 	Opinion on defendant's motion for summary Dismissed 
judgment 3/9/65 
Order dismissing petition 3/9/65 

Tuscarora Nation, see also Six Nations; and Emigrant New York Indians, et aI., Dkt. 75 
Tygh Indians, see Warm Springs Reservation, Confederated Tribes, Dkt. 198 
Uintah, see Ute, Uintah of Utah, Dkts. 44, 45; and Ute Tribe of Uintah and Ouray Reservation on behalf of Uncompahgre Band of Ute Indians 
Umatilla Reservation, 8 513 Findings on title & related issues in DkL 264 6/10/60 $2,450,000.00 Confederated Tribes, 540 Opinion in Dkt. 264 6/10/60 for settlement of: Dkts. 264, 264-A, & 264-B Interlocutory order in DkL 264 6/10/60 claims in Dkt. 
unnumbered 	Order in DkL 264 denying plaintifls' motion 264 for additional for rehearing & vacating Commission's find-compensation for ings, opinion, & interlocutory order of 6/1 0/60 9/28/64 land; claims 
14 14 Findings in DkL 264 (revised) 9/28/64 relating to fi shing 
104 Opinion in OkL 264 (revised 9/28/64 rights in DkL Interlocutory order in OkL 264 (revised) 9/28/64 264..A; and a C.c.. Order dismissing appeal No. 1-65 1/21/66 claim in Dkt. 
16 	484 Findings on compromise settlement 2/11/66 264-B for com­510 Opinion 2/11/66 £ensation for 
Frnal judgment 2/11166 ands excluded from claimants' reservation by survey error 
Umpqua, see Coos Bay, DkL 265 
Unalakleet, Native Village 19 140 Opinion holding Commission has jurisdiction 5/2/68 Dismissed of, et ai, Dkt 285 Order denying defendant's motion for summary judgment 5/2/68 188 CC. 1 Affirmed 6/20/6922 356 Opinion on motions 12/23/69359 Order denying motions & granting other 12/23/69 relief 28 133 Order granting defendant's motion to dismiss 8/16m 

a 

Alphabetical Index of Indian Claims Commission Cases 
Through September 1, 1978-Continued 

Tribe Vol. Page Decision 	Date Disposition 
Uncompahgree, see Ute Tribe of Uintah and Ouray Reservation on behalf of Uncompahgre Band of Ute Indians, Dkt. 349 
Ute, Uintah of Utah, Dkts 5 I Findings in Dkt. 44 on title issues 2/21/57 $7,700,00000 in 44 & 45 20 Opinion in Dkt. 44 2/21/57 settlement of Interlocutory order in Dkt 44 2/21/57 claims for com­5 47 Findings in Dkt. 45 on title issues 2/21/57 pensation for 59 Opinion in Dkt 45 2/21/57 land Interlocutory order in Dkt. 45 2/21/57 8 620 Findings on compromise settlement of Dkts 
44 & 45 6113160 638 Opinion 6/13/60 Fmal judgment 6/13/60 
Ute Indians, Confederated II 180 Findings -Value & payment on claim 9/14/62 $7,908,586.. 16 for Bands of, Dkt. 327 263 Opinion 9/14/62 land 
Interlocutory order 9/14/62 14 679 Additional findings on settlement of offsets 2/18/65 704 Opinion 2/18/65 Final judgment 2/18/65 
Ute, Southern Tribe or 17 28 Findings -Liability 5/6166 Dismissed 
Band, Dkt. 328 42 Opinion 5/6/66 
First interlocutory order 5/6/66 

C.C. 	Remanded with directions to hear additional evidence & to make & report to the Court findings on the question whether the parties intended by a stipulation in case No. 46640 before the Court of Claims that the final judgment in said case would be res judicata as to lands involved in Dkt. 328 5/15/67 
21 	268 Additional findings 6/27/69 276 Order transmitting findings to the Court of 
Claims 6/27/69 191 C.C. I Affirmed 3/20nO 400 u..s.. 915 Certiorari granted 1I/16nO 402 U.S. 159 Reversed 4/26171 195 C.c. 540 Order vacating the Court's opinion of3/20nO 
affirming the Commission's decision, reversing the Commission's decision of 516/66, & re­manding the case for further proceedings pursuant to the opinion of the Supreme Court & its remand of 4/26nl, & this order 6/18nl 
26 10 Final order dismissing case 	7/14/71 
Ute Tribe of Uintah and 14 707 Findings on compromise settlement 2/18/65 $300,000..00 in Ouray Reservation, on 725 Opinion 2/18/65 settlement of behalf of Uncompahgree Final judgment 2/18/65 claim arising Band of Ute Indians, Dkt from breach of 349 
promise to pro­vide a reserva·· tion for the Uncompahgree Band 

Wahpakoota, see Sioux, Sisseton and Wahpeton Bands or Tribes, et aI., Dkt. 142, et al 
Wahpeton, see Sioux, Sisseton and Wahpeton Bands or Tribes, et al., Dkt. 142, et al; Sioux, Lower Sioux Indian Community in Minnesota, et al., Dkt. 363 (Second Claim, Act of 1904), and Dkt. 363 (Second Claim, amended, Treaty of 1867, Agreement of 1872) 
Walapai, see Hualapai 
Walla Walla. see Umatilla Reservation, Confederated Tribes 
Warm Springs Apache Band, see Apache, Fort Sill, et aI., Dkts 30, 30-A, 48, 48··A, 49, 182, & 182·A 
Warm Springs Reservation, 8 557 Findings -Title 6/10/60 $1,225,00000 in Confederated Tribes, Dkt. 585 Opinion 6/10/60 settlement of 198 Interlocutory order 6/10/60 claims for addi­
12 664 Findings -Title rehearing 10/10/63 tional compensa­712 Opinion 10/10/63 tion for interest Interlocutory order 10110/63 in land 



Alphabetical Index of Indian Claims Commission Cases 


Through September 1, 1978-Continued 

Tribe Vol. Page Decision 	Date Disposition
Warm Springs Reservation, 177CC 184 Reversed & remanded 10/14/66 
Confederated Tribes, DkL 18 354 Opinion on remand 4/4/67 
198 Order amending findings & interlocutory order 
(conL) of 10/10/63 4/4/67 

29 	324 Opinion ,-Value & consideration 12/18/72 344 Dissenting opinion 12/18/72 369 Additional findings 12/18/72 406 Interlocutory order [& award] 12/18/72 
32 7 Findings on compromise settlement 10/17/73 31 Final award 10/17/73 
Warm Springs Reserva-23 314 Order dismissing petition 6/30nO Dismissed 
tion, Confederated Tribes, 
Dkt. 198·A 

Wasco Indians, see Warm Springs Reservation, Confederated Tribes, Dkt. 198 
Washoe Tribe of Nevada 6 86 Opinion 1/20/58 $4,959,350,00 for and California, Dkt. 288 93 Opinion 1/20/58 land 
6 666 Opinion . 10/6/58 Order dividing California into Areas A & B 10/6/58 7 266 Findings -Title 3120/59 282 Opinion 3120/59 Interlocutory order 3/20/59 7 792 Additional findings -Date of taking 7/24/59 Interlocutory order 7/24/59 
21 	447 Opinion -Value 10/31/69 464 Findings 10/31/69 490 Interlocutory order 10/31/69 492 Interlocutory order granting plaintiff's motion 
to amend plaintiff's proposed findings & brief 10/31/69 
24 	107 Opinion ._-Offsets 12/2/70 117 Additional findings 12/2/70 121 Final award 12/2/70 
Wayampam Indians, see Warm Springs Reservation, Confederated Tribes, Dkt. 198 
Wea, see Peoria, Dkts. 65, 314,314 Amended, 314-A through E, & 338; Miami, Indiana, Dkt, 130; & Miami, Oklahoma, Dkt 252 
Wichita Tribe of Oklahoma, et al., see intervenors in Caddo Tribe of Oklahoma, et al", Dkt 226; & Kiowa, Comanche and Apache, Dkt. 257 
Wichita Tribe and its 42 154 Order certifying & transferring to Court of Transferred to Affiliated Bands and Claims 6/8/78 Court of Claims Groups, namely the Keechi, Tawakonie, and Waco, Dkt.371 
Winnebago Tribe and 8 78 Findings -Title 8/10/59 $4,600,000,,00 in Nation, et al." Dkts. 243, 100 Opinion 8/10/59 settlement of 244, & 245 InterlocutoR; order 8/10/59 claims for addi­
16 81 Additional mdings -Value 10/13/65 tional compensa­Il7 Opinion 10/13/65 tion for land Second interlocutory order 10/13/65 181 ce, 1202 Affirmed 12/18/67 
23 	464 Opinion on compromise settlement 9/3/70 467 Findings on compromise settlement 9/3/70 482 Final judgment 9/3/70 
Wyam Indians, see Warm Springs Reservation, Confederated Tribes, Dkt 198 
Wyandot, Dkt. 120, see, Chippewa, Saginaw, Dkt I.3-G 
Wyandot, Dkt. 139, see Chippewa, Saginaw, Dkt I3-E 
Wyandot, Dkt. 140, see Chippewa, Saginaw, Dkt 59 
Wyandot, DkL 141, see Chippewa, Saginaw, Dkt I3-F 
Wyandot, Dkts. 212 & 213 38 561 Opinion -Values 8/5/76 Transferred to 583 Findings 8/5n6 Court of Claims 



Alphabetical Index of Indian Claims Commission Cases 
Through September 1, 1978-Continued 

Tribe Vol, Page 	Decision Date Disposition
---_.-
Wyandot, Okts 212 & 213 615 	Interlocutory order [& award on land claims, 
(cont.) subject to gratuitous offsets] 8/5n6 
39 370 Opmion -Procedural matters 2/9m 
374 Order 2/9m 

42 202 	Order certifying & transferring to Court of Claims 7113ns 
Yahooskin, see Klamath, Modoc and Yahooskin Band of Snake Indians, Okts 100, lOO-A, lOO-B··I, 10o-R·2, & lOO-C 
Yakima, Okts., 47,147,160, 2 433 Findings in Okt. 47 on liability 5/29/53 lhe final judg­&164 413 Opinion in Okt. 47 5/29/53 ment: awarded Interlocutory order in Okt. 47 5/29/53 $2,100,000,,00 2 481 Amended findings in Okt. 47 1116/53 for settlement of Amended interlocutory order in Okt. 47 1116/53 claims in Okt, 47 5 636 Amended & supplemental findings in Dkt. 47 for the value of on some valuation issues 11129/57 land reserved to 661 Opinion in Dkt. 47 1l/29/57 the Yakima Tribe Interlocutory order in Dkt. 47 11129/57 by treaty, which 158 C.C. 672 Affirmed in part, reversed in part & remanded 10/3/62 was excluded 16 5~6 Findings in Dkt. 47 on remanded issues 2/25/66 from the Tribe's 553 Opinion in Okt. 47 2/25/66 reservation, & for 
Order in Okt. 47 2/25/66 land within the 18 426 Order in Okt. 47 re Tract D 6/19/67 reservation 20 76 Statement & additional findings on com-patented in elT'Of' 
promise settlement 	11/14/68 to white settlers, 
Final judgment ll/14/68 & the claim in Okt. 164 for the value of lands alloted to per­sons not mem­be rs of the tribe & for reimburse­ment of tribal funds paid to such allottees; authorized severance of a claim in Okt. 47 for 21,008,,66 acres of land to be designated Okt. 47-B; & dismissed the 
claims in Dkts, 147 & 160 

Yakima, Okt. 47··A 15 456 Findings [explanatory statement] 6/25/65 $61,99140 in 
Final award 6/25/65 principal and 
interest for land 

Yakima, Okt. 47-B 29 125 	Order dismissing claim with prejudice [the Dismissed 21,008.,66 acres of land involved having been restored to the Yakima Reservation by E.O. 11670 of May 20, 1972J 10/llm 
Yakima, Okt. 161, Con-7 794 Findings on representation issues in Dkts. 161 $3,446,700,,00 to federated Tribes ofCo\ville & 224 7/28/59 the Yakima Reservation, et at., inter-805 Opinion in Dkts. 161 & 224 7/28/59 Tribe and the venor in Okt. 161; Con-Order denying motion to dismiss Okt. 224 Confederated federated Tribes of Colville insofar as Okt, 161 is concerned & granting Tribes ofColvilIe Reservation as representa-motion of plaintiff in Okt. 224 to intervene Reservation for tives of the Palouse Band, in Okt. 161 7/28/59 the benefit of the et al", Okt. 222; and Con-12 301 Additional findings on title issues 7/29/63 Yakima Nation of federated Tribes of 362 Opinion 7/29/63 1855 in settle-Colville Reservation as Interlocutory order 7/29/6,3 ment of claims in 
representatives of the IS 196 Findings on compromise settlement 4/5/65 Okts, 161, 222, Moses Band, et al", Dkt. 225 Opinion 4/5/65 & 224 for addi­
224 Final judgment 4/5/65 	tional compensa"' tion for ceded lands 





Alphabetical Index of Indian Claims Commission Cases 
Through September 1, 1978-Continued 

17'ibe Vol.. Page 	Decision Date Disposition
Yakima, Dkt. 162 4 269 Findings -Value & consideration 6/5/56 $49,000..00 for 
294 Opinion 6/5/56 land 
Interlocutory order & award 6/5/56

15 617 Additional findings 8/31/65 625 Opinion 8/31/65 Final award 8/31/65 
Yakima, Dkt. 163 unnumbered 	Order dismissing petition 8/22/58 Dismissed 
Yakima, Wishram Band, 15 464 	Order dismissing petition 7/19/65 Dismissed 
Dkt. 165 
Yana, Dkt. 215, see California Indians, Dkts. 31 & 37 
Yavapai, see Apache, Dkts" 22-E, 22-F, & 22-J 
Yokiah, Dkt. 176, see California Indians, Dkts. 31 & 37 
Yuchi (Euchee), etal., Dkt. 3 506 	Findings 5/16/55 Dismissed 
172 515 	Opinion 5/16/55 
Conclusions of law & judgment dismissing 
petition 5/16/55

136 c.c. 433 Affirmed 	10/2/56 
352 U.S.. 1016 Certiorari denied 	2/25/56 
353 U.S. 948 Rehearing denied 	4/29/57 
Zane, Lawrence, lee Wyandot 
Zia, Pueblo de, see Pueblo de Zia 
Note: 	Public Law 94-465, approved October 8, 1976 (90 Stat. 1990) provides for transfer to the United States Court of Claims of all cases before the Commission not completely adjudicated by September 30, 1978. 
Sets of the Commissio~'s decisions (opinions, findings of fact, and orders), including indexes thereto, ami decisions in particular cases are avaIlable from: , 
Clearwater Publishing Company, Inc.. , 1995 Broadway, New York City, New York 10023. (This firm can supply 
both microfiche and printed copies of the decisions, and it can also supply copies of briefs, transcripts of oral 
testimony, expert witness reports, and other materials.) 
National Indian Law Library of the Native American Rights Fund, 1506 Broadway, Boulder, Colorado 80302. (Mrs. Diana Lim Garry is the librarian) 
Testimony and written reports in Indian Claims Commission cases by anthropologists, ethnologists, and other experts, compiled and edited by Dr. David Agee HOlT, formerly Professor of Anthropology, Brandeis University, now with Peabody Museum, Harvard University, are available in printed volumes from: Garland Publishing, Inc.. , 545 Madison Avenue, New York City, New York 10022. 
Si 
Pc Pc Pc Pc 
M M 
Pe 
Cl Cl 
Cl CI 






Addendum 
TABLE OF CONTENTS OF VOLUME 43, THE LAST VOLUME OF OPINIONS, 
FINDINGS OF FACT AND ORDERS ISSUED BY 


THE INDIAN CLAIMS COMMISSION 
Sioux, Yankton, Dkt, 332-C 
Opinion -Value and offsets 
Additional findings of fact 
Final award of $15,269,924,,83 

Potawatomi, Citizen Band, Dkts. 128, 309 and 310 
Potawatomie, Prairie Band, et aL, Dkts. 15-N, 0, Q& R 
Potawatomi, Hannahville, et aI., Dkts, 29-L, M, 0 & P 
Potawatomi Indians of Indiana and Michigan, Incorporated, intervenors in the 

Potawatomi Dkts 
Miami, Indiana, Dkt. 124..B 
Miami, Oklahoma, Dkt. 254 
Peoria, Wea, Dkt. 314-B 

Opinion on valuation and consideration issues 
Additional findings of fact 
Order setting awards, subject to gratuitous offsets 

Chippewa, Turtle Mountain Band, Dkt. 113 
Chippewa, Pembina Band, et aL, Dkt. 246 
Chippewa, Little Shell Band, et aL, Dkt. 191 
Chippewa, Little Shell Band, et aL, Dkt. 221 

Opinion on valuation and consideration issues 
Additional findings of fact 
Interlocutory order and award, subject to gratuitous offsets 

Pottawatomie, Prairie Band, Dkt, 15-D 
Potawatomi, Hannahville, et aL, Dkt. 29-B 
Potawatomi, Citizen Band, Dkt. 311 
Potawatomi Indians of Indiana and Michigan, Incorporated, intervenors in the 

three Dkts 
Final award of $307,046,,00 

Peoria, Kaskaskia, Dkt, 313 (tried on value and consideration issues with 
Dkt. 15-D, et aL) 
Final award of $7, 142,75000 

Peoria, Wea, Dkt, 314·A (tIied on value and consideration issues with Dkt 15-D, et aL) Final award of $377 ,874,00 
Chippewa, Saginaw (James Strong, et aL), Dkt lJ· F Pottawatomie, Prairie Band, et aI., Dkt, 15-1 Delaware, Dkt. 27 Potawatomi, Hannahville, Dkt. 29-G Shawnee of Oklahoma, et aI., Dkt. 64..A Ottawa, Dkt. 133-C Wyandot (Lawrence Zane, et al.), Dkt, 141 Potawatomi, Citizen Band, et aL, Dkt. 308 
Opinion on valuation and consideration issues 
Additional findings of fact 
Interlocutory order and awards, subject to gratuitous offsets 

Creek Nation, Dkt 272 Opinion -Remaining issues Additional findings of fact Final award of $7,718,427.92 
Pages Date 
1-29 8/31178 30-71 8/31178 72-73 8131178 
74-149 9/8178
150-248 9/8178
249-250 9/8178 
251..274 9120178 275-305 9/20178306-307 9/20178 
308 9/20178 
309 9/20178 
310 9/20178 
,");" 

311-328 9/22/78 329·349 9/22178350-351 9/22/78 
352·-368 9/22/78 369..371 9/22/78372 9/22/78 



,. 
TABLE OF CONTENTS OF VOLUME 43, THE LAST VOLUME OF OPINIONS, FINDINGS OF FACT AND ORDERS ISSUED BY THE INDIAN CLAIMS COMMISSION-Continued 
Pages Date 

Oneida Nation of New York, et aI., Dkt. .301 (Claims 3-7) Opinion on remanded issue of whether the United States had actual 01' constructive 
knowledge of 2.3 treaties between the plaintiffs and the State of New York Additional findings of fact Interlocutory order 
Seminole Indians of Florida, and Seminole Nation of Oklahoma, Okts. 73 and 
151 (consolidated) 
Findings of fact and order allowing attorneys' expenses 

Potawatomi, Citizen Band, et aI .. , Okt. 216 
Pottawatomie, Prairie Band, et aI., Okt. 15-L 
Potawatomi, Hannahville, et aI.., Okt. 29-1 
Potawatomi Indians of Indiana and Michigan, Inc,., intervenors in the three Okts. 

Final award of $888,62304 
Chippewa, Minnesota, et aI., on behalf of the Chippewas of Lake Superior, Okt. 18-U Findings of fact on attorneys' fee Order allowing attorneys' fee 
Cayuga Nation, et aI., Okt.. 343 
Findings of fact and order allowing attorneys' fees 

Seminole Indians of Florida, Okt. 73-A 
Findings of fact and order allowing attorneys' expenses 

Shawnee of Oklahoma, Okts. 64, .3.35, and Shawnee portion of Okt. 338 
Findings of fact and order allowing attorneys' expenses 

Colville Reservation, Confederated Tribes, et aI., Okt. 181-C (Fisheries Claims) 
Opinion 
Opinion dissenting in part and concuning in part 
Findings of fact 
Interlocutory order and award 

Potawatomi, Hannahville, et aI., plaintiffs, and 
Potawatomi, Citizen Band, 
Pottawatomie, Prairie Band, et aI., and 
Potawatomi Indians of Indiana and Michigan, Inc., intervenors, Okt. 29··0 (tried with 

Okt. 13-E, et aI.) 
Findings of fact and order allowing attorney fees 

Potawatomi, Citizen Band, et aI., intervenors in 
Potawatomi, Hannahville, et aI, Okt. 29-E 
Findings of fact and order allowing expenses of counsel for the Citizen Band 

Potawatomi, Hannahville, et aI., plaintiffs, and Potawatomi, Citizen Band, Pottawatomie, Prairie Band, et aI., and Potawatomi Indians of Indiana and Michigan, Inc., intervenors, Dkt. 29-E (tried with 
Okts. 59 and I3l·B) 
Findings of fact and order allowing attorney fees 

Potawatomi, Citizen Band, et aI., intervenors in Potawatomi, Hannahville, et aI., Okt. 29-D (tried with Dkt. I3-E, et al.) Findings of fact and ?rder allowing expenses of counsel for the Citizen Band 
Delaware, Okt. 27-E (tried with Okt.. I3-E, et al.) 
Delaware, Absentee, et aI., Okt. 202 (tried with Okt. 13-E, et al.) Findings of fact and order allowing attorneys' expenses Findings of fact and order allowing attorneys' fees 
Bay Mills Indian Community, Sault Ste. Marie Bands, et aI., Okt. 18-R Findings of fact and order allowing attorneys' fees 
Peoria, Wea, Okt. 314..B (tried with Okts. 128, 15-N, et al.) Final award of $116,144.00 
373-407 9/22/78 
408467 9/22/78 
468..469 9/22/78 

470-475 9/22/78 
476-477 9/28/78 

478-488 9/28/78 489··490 9/28/78 491·494 9/28/78 495-499 9/28/78 500-504 9/28/78 505..551 9/29/78 552 ~ 9/29/78 553-605 9/29/78 606-607 9/29/78 
608-616 9/29/78 
617-620 9/29/78 
621-629 9/29/78 
630-633 9/29/78 
6.34-6.39 9/29/78 640..645 9/29/78 646-651 9/29/78 652-65.3 9/29/78 

TABLE OF CONTENTS OF VOLUME 43, THE LAST VOLUME OF OPINIONS, 

FINDINGS OF FACT AND ORDERS ISSUED BY 
THE INDIAN CLAIMS COMMISSION-·Continued 

PagesDate 
Order certifying and transfening the following cases to the United States 
Court of Claims: Dkt 15-C, Pottawatomie, Prairie Band, et .aL Dkt. 29-A, Potawatomi, Hannahville, et al  }  Consolidated  654·657  9/29/78  
Dkt. 71, Potawatomi, Citizen Band  
Dkt 18··B, Chippewa, Minnesota, et at Dkt. 18-D, Chippewa, Bois Forte Band, et aL Dkt 18··R, Bay Mills Indian Community, et aI, Dkt. 144, Chippewa, Pillager Bands in Minnesota  
Dkt 146, Potawatomi, Citizen Band, et at Dkt. 29··K, Potawatomi, Hannahville, et al.  }  Consolidated  
Dkt  15-M, Potawatomi, Prairie Band, et at  
Dkt. 217, Potawatomi, Citizen Band, et al Dkt 15-K, Pottawatomie, Prairie Band, et al  }  Consolidated  
Dkt. 29-J, Potawatomi, Hannahville, et al.  
Dkt  227, Pueblo of Laguna, et aL  
Dkt  364. Ottawa-Chippewa of Michigan  

Transferred for adjudication of pending matters in respect to applications for 
allowance of attorney expenses, and in one case, applications for allowance of attorneys' 
fee and expenses 
Order certifying and transferring the following cases to the United States Court of Claims: 658-660 9/29/78Dkts. 341-A, B, C, and D, Seneca..Cayuga of Oklahoma Dkt. 343, Cayuga Nation, et al. Dkts 342, 342-A, B, C, D, E, F, G, H, and I, Seneca Nation Dkts. 368 and 368-A, Tonawanda Band of Seneca Indians Dkts 84, 89, and .344, Six Nations, et al DkL 321, Tuscarora Transferred for aqjudication of applications for reimbursement of attorneys' expenses 
Order certifying and transfening the following cases to the United States Court of Claims: 661-666 9/29/78
Dkt 60-A. Makah 
Dkt, 74, Sioux Tribe, et al. 
Dkt. 100-B-2, Klamath and Modoc Tribes and Yahooskin Band of Snake Indians 
Dkt. 169, Creek Nation 
Dkt. 181-C (Fisheries Claims), Colville Reservation, Confederated Tribes, et al 
Dkt. 181 .. D, Colville Reservation, Confederated Tribes, et ai, 
Dkt 182, Apache, Fort Sill, et a!. 
Dkt. 236-E, Pima-Maricopa, Gila River 
Dkt, 272, Creek Nation 
Dkt 300-A, Stockbridge Munsee Community, et al 
Dkt 301, Oneida Nation of New York, et al. 
Dkt 326-K, Shoshone, Western Identifiable Group (represented by Temoak Bands) 
Dkt. 332-C, Sioux, Yankton 
Dkt 355, Pueblo of Santo Domingo 
Dkts 372, 373, 374 and 375, Wichita Indian Tribe and its affiliated bands and groups, 
namely, the Keechi, Tawakonie and Waco 
Order certifying and transfening the following cases to the United States Court of Claims: 667-668 9/29/78 
DkL 216, Potawatomi, Citizen Band, et al. 
Dkt. 15-L, Potawatomi, Prairie Band, et at 
Dkt. 29.. 1, Potawatomi, Hannahville, et al 
Potawatomi Indians of Indiana and Michigan, Inc .. , intervenors in the 
three dockets 
Order certifying and transferring the following cases to the United States Court of Claims: 669-670 
9/29/78 Dkt. 279-C. Blackfeet and Gros Ventre Tribes l Consolidated 
DkL 250··A, Fort Belknap Indian Community f 
Dkt. 279-D, Blackfeet 
Order certifying and transfening the following cases to the United States Court 
of Claims: 671-672 9/29/78 ,. 
Dkt 352. Aleut Community of SI. Paul Island Consolidated 
Dkt. 369-A. Aleut Community of SL George Island 
Dkt 369, Aleut Tribe, et at 


TABLE OF CONTENTS OF VOLUME 43, THE LAST VOLUME OF OPINIONS, 

FINDINGS OF FACT AND ORDERS ISSUED BY 
THE INDIAN CLAIMS COMMISSION-Continued 

Pages Date 

Order certifying and transfening the following cases to the United States Court 
of Claims: 
Dkt. 113, Chippewa, Turtle Mountain Band 
Dkt. 246, Chippewa, Pembina Band, et aL }
Dkt. 191, Little Shell Band, et aL Consolidated 
Dkt. 221, Little Shell Band, et aI. 
Order certifying and transfening the following cases to the United States Court 
of Claims: 
Dkts, 128, 309,310, Potawatomi, Citizen Band, et aI. 
Dkts. 15-N, 0, Q and R, Potawatomie, Prairie Band, et aI. 
Dkts, 29-L, M, 0 and P, Potawatomi, Hannahville, et aI. 
Potawatomi Indians of Indiana and Michigan, Inc", intervenors in the Potawatomi Dkts. 
Dkt. 124-B, Miami, Indiana 
Dkt. 254, Miami, Oklahoma 
Dkt. 314-B, Peoria, Wea 
Order certifying and transferring the following cases to the United States Court 
of Claims: 
Dkt. 59, Chippewa, Saginaw 
Dkt. 29-E, Potawatomi, Hannahville, et aI., plaintiffs, Potawatomi Indians of 
Indiana and Michigan, Inc", and the Prairie and Citizen Bands of Potawatomi 
Indians, intervenors 
Dkt. 133-B, Ottawa 
Order certifying and transferring the following consolidated cases to the United States 
Court of Claims: 
Dkt,,15-P, Potawatomie, Prairie Band, et aI. 
Dkt. 29..N, Potawatomi, HannahvilJe, et aL 
Dkt. 306, Potawatomi, Citizen Band, et al. 
Potawatomi Indians of Indiana and Michigan, Inc. are intervenors in the three Dkts. 
Order certifying and transferring the following cases to the United States Court 
of Claims: 
Dkt. 15-E, Pottawatomie, Prairie Band, et aI. 
Dkt. 29-C, Potawatomi, Hannahville, et aI. 
Dkt. 120, Wyandot 
Dkl., 130, Miami, Indiana 
Dkt. 252, Miami, Oklahoma 
Dkt. 338, Potawatomi, Citizen Band, et aL 
Dkt, 338, Peoria, Wea and Kaskaskia 
Dkt. 338, Kickapoo Tribes of Oklahoma and Kansas, et aI. 
Dkt. 338, Ottawa 
Order certifying and transferring the following cases to the United States Court 
of Claims: 
Dkt. 15-D, Pottawatomie, Prairie Band, et al. 
Dkt. 29-B, Potawatomi, Hannahville, et al. 
Dkt. 311, Potawatomi, Citizen Band, et aI" 
Dkts. 313 and 314-A, Peoria Tribe on behalf of the Kaskaskia, Wea, and 
Peoria Nations 
Dkt. 315, Kickapoo of Kansas and Oklahoma 
Potawatomi Indians of Indiana and Michigan, Inc, intervenors in Dkts. 15-D and 29-B 
Order certifying and transferring the following cases to the Unites States Court 
of Claims: 
Dkt. I3-F, Chippewa, Saginaw (James Strong, et aI,,) 
Dkt. 15-1, Pottawatomie, Prairie Band, et al. 
Dkt. 27, Delaware 
Dkt. 29-G, Potawatomi, Hannahville, et aI. 
Dkt. 64-A, Shawnee of Oklahoma, et aL 
Dkt, 1.33·C, Ottawa 
Dkt. 141, Wyandot (Lawrence Zane, et aI,) 
Dkt. 308, Potawatomi, Citizen Band, et aI" 
Pottawatomie, Prairie Band, et aI., Okt. 15··E Potawatomi, Hannahville, et aI., Okt. 29-C Wyandot (Lawrence Zane, et aL), Okt. 120 Miami, Indiana, Okt. 130 
ItO 
673-674 
675-676 
677-678 
679-680 
681-682 

683-684 
685-686 9/29/78 
9/29/78 
9/29/78 
9/29/78 
9/29/78 
9/29/78 
9/29/78 

TABLE OF CONTENTS OF VOLUME 43, THE LAST VOLUME OF OPINIONS, 

FINDINGS OF FACT AND ORDERS ISSUED BY 
THE INDIAN CLAIMS COMMISSION-Continued 

Pages  Date  
Miami, Oklahoma, Okt 252  
Potawatomi, Citizen Band, Okt. 338  
Peoria, Wea and Kaskaskia, Okt 338  
Kickapoo of Oklahoma and Kansas, Okt. 3.38 Ottawa, Okt. 338  
Opinion on value and consideration issues Additional findings of fact Final order dismissing the claims in Okts. 120, 130, 252, and certain claims in Okt. 338, and interlocutory order and awards in Okts.. 15-E, 29-C and 338  687·719 720-744 745-748  9/29/78 9/29/78 9/29/78  
Order certifying and transferring the folIo wing cases to the United States Court of Claims: Okt H·E, Chippewa, Saginaw (James Strong, et aL)  749-750  9/29/78  
Okt. 27-E, Delaware  
Okt 29-0, Potawatomi, Hannahville, et aL, plaintiffs, Citizen and Prairie Bands of Potawatomi Indians, and Potawatomi Indians of Indiana and Michigan, Inc.,  
intervenors  
Okts. 133-A and 302, Ottawa  
Okt. 139, Wyandot (Lawrence Zane, et a! .. ) Okt. 202, Delaware, Absentee  



Index of Indian Claims by Docket Number, 
September 22, 1978 

DateDispositionDocket No. Tribe, Band, or Group 

._----_.._------------­
I 2 3 4 5 6 7  Creek, Loyal Cherokee, Western (Old Settler) and Eastern (Emigrant) Cherokee, Western (Old Settler) Ottawa & Chippewa of Michigan Cherokee, Eastern (Emigrant) Potawatomi, Henry Jackson, et af. Chippewa, Minnesota, et af.  Award Dismissed Dismissed Dismissed Dismissed Dismissed Dismissed  10/19/51 2/19/52 11/15/48 3/25/49 11/15/48 2/15/49 1/24/49  
8 9 10 11 ll-A 12 13 13-A lJ·B 13-C 13-D 13-E 13-F 13-G 13-H 13-1 13-J 13-K 13-L 13-M B-N 14 15 15-A 15-B 15-C 15-D 15-E 15-F 15-G 15·H 15-1 15-J 15-K 15-L 15-M 15-N 15-0 15-P 15-Q 15-R 16  Chippewa, Fon Du Lac, Bois Forte, Grand Portage Bands Osage Nation Pawnee, Oklahoma Otoe & Missouria Otoe & Missouria California, Federated Indians of Chippewa, Saginaw Chippewa, Saginaw Chippewa, Saginaw Chippewa, Saginaw Chippewa, Saginaw Chippewa, Saginaw Chippewa, Saginaw Chippewa, Saginaw Chippewa, Saginaw Chippewa, Saginaw Chippewa, Saginaw Chippewa, Saginaw Chippewa, Saginaw Chippewa, Saginaw Chippewa, Saginaw Quapaw Pottawatomie, Prairie Band, e! al. Pottawatomie, Prairie Band, et a1. Pottawatomie, Prairie Band, et al. Pottawatomie, Prairie Band, et af. Pottawatomie, Prairie Band, et al. Pottawatomie, Prairie Band, et al. Pottawatomie, Prairie Band, et al.. Pottawatomie, Prairie Band, et a1. Potawatomie, Prairie Band, et al. Potawatomie, Prairie Band, e! al. Potawatomie, Prairie Band, er al. Potawatomie, Prairie Band, et al. Potawatomie, Prairie Band, et al.. Potawatomie, Prairie Band, et al. Potawatomie, Prairie Band, et a1. Potawatomie, Prairie Band, et al. Potawatomie, Prairie Band, et al. Potawatomie, Prairie Band, et al. Potawatomie, Prairie Band, et al Choctaw Nation  Dismissed Award Award Award Award Dismissed Concluded by separating out all claims Dismissed ··Dismissed Dismissed Dismissed Award, subject to appeal Interlocutory award Dismissed Dismissed Dismissed Dismissed Dismissed Dismissed Dismissed Dismissed Award Dismissed [all causes being pleaded in separate petitions] Dismissed Award Award with Dkts. 29-A & 71 Awar'd with Dkts. 29-B & 311, subject to appeal Pending Dismissed Dismissed Dismissed Interlocutory award with Dkts. 29-G & 308 Award with Dkt. 71-A Award with Dkts. 217 & 29-J Interlocutory award with Dkts.. 216 & 29-1 Award with Dkts. 146 & 29-K Award with Dkts. 128,309,310, 15-0, 15-Q, 15-R, 29-L, 29-M, 29-0, & 29-P, subject to offsets Award with Dkts. 128, et aI., subject to offsets Award with Dkts. 29-N & 306 Award with Dkts. 128, et al., subject to offsets Award with Dkts. 128, et aI., subject to offsets Award  1/24/49 3/1/55 7/6/62 2/17/56 4/14/64 4/28/49 7113/49 10/17/73 3/9/50 2/19/54 3/9/50 8/17/78 9/22/78 8/9/73 4/22/54 5/14/53 9/19/56 12/26/73 11/29/62 6/30/58 4/9/69 5/7/54 12/27/57 6/2/52 8/8/55 6/23/76 9/20/78 11/3/59 11/3/59 6/4/57 9/22/78 2/26/59 4/25/73 8/30/78 4/19/74 9/8/78 9/8/78 7/14/78 9/8ns 9/8ns 7/14/50  
17 18 18-A IS-B 18-C 18-D  Snake or Piute Indians of former Malheur Reservation, Oregon Chippewa, Minnesota, et af. Chippewa, Red Lake, Pembina, & White Earth Bands, er al. Chippewa, Minnesota, et af. Chippewa Chippewa, Bois Forte Band  Award Concluded by separating out all causes of action Award with portions of Dkts. 113 & 191 Awards· Award Award  12/4/59 7/13/49 4/24/64 7/27/65 11/7/73 1/28/77  

'On behalf of the Mississippi Bands. and the Pillager and Lake Winnibigoshish Bands 


Index of Indian Claims by Docket Number, 
September 22, 1978-Continued 


Docket No, 
18-£ 18-F 18-0 18-H 18-1 18··J 18-K 18-L 18··M 18··N 18..P 18-Q 18-R 18-S 
18-T 
18-U 
19 
20 
21 
22 

22-A 
22-B 
22-C 
22-D 
22..£ 
22-F 
22-0 
22-H 
22-J 
22-K 
23 
24 
25 
26 
27 
27-A 
27-B 
27-C 
27-D 

27-£ 
28 
29 
29-A 
29-B 
29-C 
29-D 
29-£ 
29-F 
29-0 
29·H 
29-1 
29-J 
29-K 
29-L 
29-M 
29-N 
29-0 
29..P 
30 

30-A 
31 
32 
33 

114 
Tribe, Band, or Group 
--,,-,-,.._--­
Bay Mills Community. et af. 
Bay Mills Community. Sault Ste" Marie Bands 
Chippewa. Red Lake Band. et al.. 
Chippewa. Red Lake Band. et a/. 
Chippewa. Red Lake Band, et al.. 
Chippewa. Red Lake Band. et al. 
Chippewa, Red Lake Band. et al.. 
Chippewa, Red Lake Band, et a/" 
Chippewa, Red Lake Band. et a/" 
Chippewa. Minnesota. et al.. 
Chippewa, Red Lake Band, et a/. 
Chippewa. Red Lake Band. et aI., 
Bay Mills Community. Sault Ste, Marie Bands 
Chippewa, Minnesota, et a/. [on behalf of the 

Chippewas of Lake Superior and the Mississippi] Chippewa, Minnesota, et af. [on behalf of the Chippewas of the Mississippi and Lake Superior] Chippewa. Minnesota. et a/ [on behalf of the 
Chippewas of Lake Superior] 
Chippewa, Minnesota, et a/, 
Chippewa. Minnesota, et aI., 
Creek Nation [of 1814] 
Apache Nation. et ai, 

Apache. JicariJIa 
Apache, Mescalero 
Apache, Lipan and Mescalero 
Apache. San Carlos and White Mountain 
Apache, Yavapai. et a/ } 
Apache, Yavapai, et a/. 
Apache. Mescalero
Apache. San Carlos and White Mountain 
Apache, Northern Tonto. Yavapai, et a/. 
Apache. JicariJIa 
Chickasaw Nation 
Cherokee, Western (Old Settler) 
Creek Freedmen Association 
Cherokee. Texas 
Delaware 
Delaware 
Delaware 
Delaware 
Delaware 
Delaware 
Potawatomi, Hannahville. et af. 

Potawatomi, Hannahville. et al. Potawatomi, Hannahville. et al. Potawatomi, Hannahville, et a/, Pota\\atomi, Hannahville, et al.. Potawatomi. Hannahville, et al. Potawatomi. Hannahville. et af. Pota\\atomi, HannahviJIe, et a/" Potawatomi. HannahviJIe. et a/. Pota\\atomi, Hannahville, et al. Potawatomi, Hannahville, et af. Potawatomi. Hannahville, et a/, Potawatomi, Hannahvi!!e, et al. Pota\\atomi, HannahviJIe, et ai"~ Potawatomi, HannahviJIe, et al.. Potawatomi, HannahviJIe, et a/, Pota.... atomi. Hannahville, et a/. Potawatomi, Hannahville, et a/. Apache, Fort Sill, Chiricahua. and Warm Springs, 
et of. 
Apache, Fort Sill, Chiricahua, and Warm Springs, 
et 01. 
California Indians 
Kiowa, Comanche, and Apache Kaw 
Disposition 
Award with Dkt.. 58 
Dismissed 
Dismissed 
Dismissed 
Dismissed 
Dismissed 
Dismissed 
Dismissed 
Dismissed 
Dismissed 
Dismissed 
Dismissed 
Award 

Awards 
Award 
Award 
Transfened to Court of Claims 
Dismissed 
Award 
Dismissed [the claims originally presented in 

Dkt. 22 being pleaded in other dkts] 
Award 
Award 
Award 
Award 

Award 
Transferred to Court of Claims Transfened to Court of Claims Award Award Award Dismissed Dismissed Dismissed Interlocutory award Award with Dkt. 241 Award with Delaware portion of Dkt.. 338 Dismissed Dismissed Award with Dkt. 202 Transferred to Court of Claims Concluded by separating out all causes of action Award with Dkts, 15-C & 71 Award with Dkts. 15-D & 311, subject to appeal Pending Award, subject to appeal Award Dismissed Interlocutory award with Dkts" 15-1 & 308 Dismissed Interlocutory award with Dkts. 216 & 15-L Award with Dkts. 217 & 15-K Award with Dkts. 146 & 15-M 
Award with Dkts. 128, et al.,. subject to offsets 
Award with Dkts. 128, et a/.• subject to offsets 
Award with Dkts" 15..P & 306 
Award with Dkts" 128. et a/., subject to offsets 
Award with Dkts, 128, et a/., suqject to offsets 

Award with Dkt.. 48 

Award with Dk!. 48..A, 
Award, concluded claims in Dkts. 31, 37. 176,215, 

333, 80, 80-D, & 347 Award Award 
Date 
3/15/72 10/24/74 4/1/70 9/20/72 
11129/62 
6113/73 
5/23/73 4/4/73 8/9/73 11120/64 12/26/73 6/20/57 12/26/73 
11123/77 
5/31172 
3/30/78 12115/76 1l/12/57 9/10/62 5/8/64 
4/21171 
4/27/67 2/19/76 9/12/72 
311.3/69 
12/15/76 12/15/76 9/12/72 2/21/74 7/14/50 4/3/52 8/4/49 12/28/53 9/22/78 11/24171 12116/77 12/26/68 
8/31154 
7/17/78 
5/8/78 
7113/49 
6/23/76 
9/20/78 

8/17/78 6/22/78 6/4/57 9/22178 5/8/53 8/30/78 4/25/73 4/19/74 9/8/78 9/8/78 7/14/78 9/8/78 9/8178 
8/25171 
8/25171 
7/20/64 
7/18/57 5/15/52 





Index of Indian Claims by Docket Number, 
September 22, 1978-Continued 

Docket No Tribe, Band, or Group Disposition Date 
34 Kaw 
35 Kaw 
36 Kaw 
37 California Indians 
38 Kaw 
39 Choctaw and Chickasaw 
40 Ottawa 40-A Ottawa 4O-B Ottawa 4Q-C Ottawa 40-D Ottawa 4Q-E Ottawa 4Q-F Ottawa 40-G Ottawa 4Q.H Ottawa 40-1 Ottawa 
40-J Ottawa 
4Q-K Ottawa [on behalf of Grand River Band] 
41 Cherokee, Western (Old Settler) 
42 Cherokee, Eastern (Emigrant) 
43 Cherokee, Western (Old Settler) 
44 } Ute, Uintah of Utah
45 
46 Nooksack 
47 Yakima 
47-A Yakima 
47-B Yakima 
48 Apache, Fort Sill, Chiricahua, and Warm Springs 
48-A Apache, Fort Sill, Chiricahua, and Warm Springs 
49 Apache, Fort Sill, Chiricahua, et al. 
50 Choctaw Nation 
51 Choctaw Nation 
52 Choctaw East of the Mississippi 
53 Seminole Nation 
54 Crow 
55 Choctaw Nation 
56 Choctaw Nation 
57 Chippewa, Saginaw 
58 Ottawa and Chippewa of Michigan 
59 Chippewa, Saginaw 
60 Makah 
6Q-A Makah 
61 
Flathead Reservation, Confederated Salish and Kootenai Tribes 
62 Assiniboine Indians 
63 
Shoshone of Wind River Reservation, Wyoming 64 Shawnee of Oklahoma, et al 
64-·A Shawnee of Oklahoma, et al 
65 Peoria. Kaskaskia, Piankeshaw, Wea 
66 Peoria, Kaskaskia 
67 Miami, Oklahoma 
68 Ottawa 
69 Navajo 
70 Hualapai 
71 Potawatomi, Citizen Band, et al. 
71-A Potawatomi, Citizen Band, et al. 
72 Deiaware, Absentee 
73 Seminole Indians of Florida 
73-A Seminole Indians of Florida 
73-B Seminole Indians of Florida 
74 Sioux Tribe, et al. 
74·-A Sioux Tribe, et al. 74-B Sioux Nation, et al. 
Emigrant New York Indians 76 Miami, Oklahoma 77 Seneca Nation 78 
75 
Sioux lribe of Lower Brule Reservation, S D. 
Dismissed 
Award 
Dismissed 
Award, see Dkt. 31 
Dismissed 
Dismissed 
Concluded by separating out all causes Dismissed Dismissed Dismissed Dismissed 
Dismissed 
Dismissed 
Dismissed 
Dismissed 
Dismissed 
Dismissed 
Award 
Dismissed 
Dismissed 
Dismissed 
Award 
Award 
Award with Dkt 164 
Award 
Dismissed 
Award with Dkt. 30 
Award with Dkt. 3Q-A 
Dismissed 
Dismissed 
Dismissed 
Dismissed 
Dismissed 
Award 
Dismissed 
Dismissed 
Award 
Award with Dkt. 18-E 
Award 
Dismissed 
Pending 
Award 
Dismissed 
Award 
Award with Dkt. 335 & the Shawnee portion of Dkt.338 
Interlocutory award 
Award 
Dismissed 
Award with Dkt. 124 
Dismissed 
Transfened to Court of Claims 
Dismissed 
Award with Dkts .. 15-C & 29··A 
Award with Dkt 15-J 
Award with Dkt. 298 
Award with Dkt 151 
Award 
Dismissed 
Award, subject to appeal 
Petition stricken 
After entry of interlocutory award the record was sent to the Court of Claims pursuant to Public Law 95-243, approved 3/13/78 (92 Stat 153) 
Award 
Dismissed 
Dismissed 
Dismissed 5/15/52 5/15/52 2/14/50 7/20/64 12/19/55 10/28/49 
7!13/49 
3/9/50 
2119/54
1l/6/59 1l/6/59 12/10/59 8/9/73 3/9/50 9/19/56 12/26/73 1l/29/62 3/27/68 12128/50 12/28/50 6/ll/51 
6!13/60 
2/9/62 1l/14/68 6/25/65 
10/llm 8/2517l 8/2517l 9/2417l 4/10/51 3/2/50
217157 
4/22/52 5/29/61 6/ll/51 7/14/50 8/l/73 
3/15m 
6/22/78 4/15/59 
8/5/66 12/12/52 4/22/57 6/3/77 
9/22/78 1l/13/68 5/6/57 6/30/60 l/1l/61 
12127/76 
4/28/61 6/23/76 2/26/59 9/10/69 4/27/76 4/20/77 1/16/74 7/9/78 1/30/62 4/12/78 
8/11/64 
1l/21!61 
6/12/51 10/27/61 
115 




Index of Indian Claims by Docket Number, 
September 22, 1978-Continued 

Docket No. Tribe. Band, or Group Di5p05ition Date 
-------------, 
79 Iowa Award 2/28/66 79·A Iowa Award 5/21/69 80 Mission Indians of California, Bands of Award, see Dkt. 31 7/20/64 80-A Mission Indians of California, Bands of Transferred to Court of Claims 12/15/76 80-B Mission Indians of California, Bands of Transfened to Court of Claims 12/15176 80-C Mission Indians of California, Bands of Dismissed 6/18/69 80-D Mission Indians of California, Bands of Award, see Dkt. 31 7/20/64 81 Coeur D'Alene Award 5/6/58 82 Arapaho, Northern Dismissed 8/15/51 83 Sac and Fox Award 12126173 84 Six Nations, et al. Award with Dkt. 300-B, & separate award for 12128173 
Seneca Nation 85 Omaha Dismissed 12/19/51 86 Quechan of Fort Yuma Reservation, California Dismissed 8/22/58 87 Paiute Nation, Northern, et al. Awards: Snake-Paiute Tract 7/3/61 
Mono & Paviotso Tracts 11/4/65 87··A Paiute Nation, Northern, el al. Transferred to Court of Claims 3/217887..B Paiute, Pyramid Lake Tribe Award 7/23175 88 Paiute Nation, Southern, et al. Award with Dkts. 330 & 330-A 1/18/65 89 Six Nations, et al. Dismissed 8/9173 90 Hualapai Award with Dkt. 122 6/18/68 91 Havasupai Award 8/6/69 92 Skagit, Upper Award 9/23/68 93 Snoqualmie, Skykomish Award 9/23168 94 Pend d'Oreille, Lower, or Kalispel Award 3/21/63 95 Sac and Fox Award 9/25/74 96 Potawatomi, Citizen Band, el al. Award 8/27/68 97 Suiattle-Sauk Dismissed 12118/52 98 Muckleshoot Award 10/18/63 99 Peoria, Piankeshaw Award 2/11170 100 Klamath and Modoc Tribes and Yahooskin Band 
of Snake Indians Award 1/31/64 100-A Klamath and Modoc Tribes and Yahooskin Band of Snake Indians Award 9/2/69 l00-B-l Kalmath and Modoc Tribes and Yahooskin Band of Snake Indians Award 12/2176 100-B-2 Klamath and Modoc Tribes and Yahooskin Band of Snake Indians Pending 1000C Klamath and Modoc Tribes and Yahooskin Band 
of Snake Indians Award 10/31175 101 Potawatomi, Citizen Band, el al .. Dismissed 9/14/64 102 Papago of Arizona Award with Dkt. 345 7121176 103 Choctaw Nation Dismissed 3/8/54 104 Sioux of Santee Reservation, Nebraska Dismissed 10/17/52 105 
Osage Nation 
I
106 Osage Nation 
Award 9/15170
107 Osage Nation 108 Osage Nation. 109 Duwamish Tribe Award 12/11/63110 Lummi Award 10/22170111 Potawatomi, Citizen Band, et al. Award 8/8/55112 Schagthticoke of Kent, Connecticut Dismissed 9/9/58113 Chippewa, Turtle Mountain Band Interlocutory award on remaining claim with 9/20/78 
Dkts. 246, 191, & 221 114 Sioux Tribe of Cheyenne River Reservation, S. D, Award 6/18/69115 Sioux Tribe of Crow Creek Reservation, S. D.. Transfened to Court of Claims) 5/8/78116 Sioux Tribe of Lower Brule Reservation, S. D. Transferred to Court of Claims 5/8/78117Sioux Tribe of Pine Ridge Reservation, S. D. Transferred to Court of Claims 5/8178its Sioux Tribe of Rosebud Reservation, S" D Transferred to Court of Claims 5/8/78119 Sioux Tribe of Standing Rock Reservation, S, D, Transferred to Court of Claims 5/8/78 120 Wyandot Pending 121 Seminole Indians, Loyal Group Dismissed 2127/58 122 Hualapai Award with Dkt. 90 6/18/68123 Cherokee Freedmen Dismissed 12128/61124 Miami, Indiana Award with Dkt.. 67 6/30/60124-A Miami, Indiana Award 5/31/61124-B Miami, Indiana Award with Dkt. 254, subject to offsets 9/8178124-C Miami, Indiana Award with Dkt. 255 1213/68124-D Miami, Indiana 124-E Miami, Indiana Award with Dkt. 256 1213/68 
116 






Index of Indian Claims by Docket Number, 
September 22, 1978-Continued 

Docket No. Tribe, Band. or GroupDisposition Date 
---------=--------­
124-F 124-G 124-H 125 126 127 128 129 130 131 132 133 l33-A l33-B m-c 134 135 135 135·A 136 137 138 138 138 139 140 141 142 143 144 145 146 147 148  Menominee Miami, Indiana Miami, Indiana Suquamish Ottawa Ottawa Ottawa Ottawa S'Klallam Iowa Sac and Fox Sac and Fox Pueblo de Cochiti Pueblos de Zia, Jemez, and Santa Ana Iowa Omaha Sac and Fox Wyandot Wyandot WyandotSioux, Sisseton and Wahpeton Bands or Tribes, et a/. Sac and Fox Chippewa, Pillager Bands in Minnesota KickapooPotawatomi, Citizen Band, et a/. Yakima Cabazon Band of Mission Indians Miami, Indiana) Miami, Indiana Miami, Indiana Snohomish Osage Nation Osage Nation Potawatomi, Citizen Band, et at  4/24/52 7/25/67 5/19/65 10/25/73 4/21/66 4/19/7411/14/68 6/16/71 1/8/70 10/22170 12/26/57 8/17/78 6/22178 9/22/7811/5/76 5/7/655/7/65 5/8/613/27/59 1/10/743/22/65 4/14/64 3/2/658/17/78 6/13/73 9/22/78 Award Award Award Award Award with Dkts. 15-M & 29-K Dismissed Award Award with Dkt. 256 1213/68Dismissed 4/24/58Dismissed 2/14174 Award 3/30/67 Dismissed 7/30/59 Dismissed 12/11/63 Award with Dkts. 309,310, 15-N, 15-0, 15-Q, 15-R, 9/8/78 29-L, 29.. M, 29.. 0, & 29-P, subject to offsets Dismissed PendingAward with DkL 253 Award Dismissed Award with Dkt. 302, subject to appeal Award Interlocutory award Award Award Award Dismissed Dismissed Award Award Award Award Award Dismissed Interlocutory order  
149 150 151 152 153 153 154 155 156 157 158 158 159 160 161 162 163 164 165 166 ~67 168 169  Twenty··nine Palm Band of California Mission Indians Seminole Nation of Oklahoma Seminole Nation of Oklahoma Seminole Nation of Oklahoma Iowa Sac and Fox Kootenai of Idaho Quileute and Hoh TIibes Flathead Reservation, Confederated Salish and Kootenai Tribes Shoshone of Wind River Reservation, Wyoming Iowa Sac and Fox Oneida of Wisconsin Yakima Yakima Yakima Yakima Yakima Yakima, Wishram Band Creek Nation Creek Nation Creek Nation Creek Nation  Dismissed Award Award Award Dismissed Dismissed Award with Dkts. 222 & 224 Award Dismissed Award with Dkl. 47 Dismissed Dismissed Award Dismissed Award Dismissed Award Award with DkL 73 Dismissed Award Award Award Award  12/31/58 6/4/584/27/76 8/22/62 2/4/70 2/4/70 4/25/60 4/17/63 2/24/71 2/24/65 5/12/6911/23/73 12/6/6211/14/68 4/5/65 8/31/658/22/58 11/14/68 7/19/652/13/68 5/26/71 3/18/63 4/6/77  
170 171 172 173  Pascagoula, Biloxi, and Mobilian Consolidated Band Tee-Hit-Ton Yuchi (Euchee), et a/. Cherokee Nation  Dismissed Dismissed Dismissed Award  12/3/686/14/68 5/16/559/14/61  
17J.A 174 175  Cherokee Nation and Cherokee Freedmen, et a/., Intervenors Pueblo de Pecos, et a/. Nez Perce  Award Dismissed Award  5/30/73 12/11/598/25/71  



Docket No. 
175·A 175-B 176 177 178 178-A 179 
179-A 180 180-A 181 181-A 181-B 181-C 
181-D 182 182-A 183 
184 
185 
186 
187 188 189 189-A 189-B 189-C 190 191 
192 193 194 195 196 197 198 198-A 199 200 201 202 203 
204 
205 
206 
207 
208 
209 
209 
210 

211 
212 
213 
214 
215 
216 
217 
218 
219 
220 
221 

221-A 
118 
Index of Indian Claims by Docket Number, 
September 22, 1978-Continued 

Tribe, Band, or Group Disposition
----------'_. 
Nez Perce 
Nez Perce 
Yokiah 
Colville Reservation, Confederated Tribes 
Colville Reservation, Confederated Tribes 
Colville Reservation, Confederated Tribes 
Colville Reservation, Confederated Tribes as 

Representatives of the Joseph Band of Nez 
Perce Tribe 
Nez Perce 
Nez Perce 
Nez Perce 
Colville Reservation, Confederated Tribes 
Colville Reservation, Confederated Tribes } 
Colville Reservation, Confederated Tribes 
Colville Reservation, Confederated Tribes 

Colville Reservation, Confederated Tribes 
Apache, Fort Sill, et al. 
Ar~che, Fort Sill, et al. 
Fort Peck Indians of Fort Peck Reservation, 

Montana 
Fort Peck Indians of Fort Peck Reservation 

Montana Colorado River Indian Tribes Colville Reservation, Confederated Tribes, et a/., 
on Behalf of Joseph Band of the Nez Perce Tribe Chitina, Alaska, Natives of Chippewa, Minnesota, et aI., Chippewa, Red Lake Band, et a/. Chippewa, Red Lake Band, et al.. Chippewa, Red Lake Band, et a/. Chippewa, Red Lake Band, et a/. Cherokee Nation Chippewa, Little Shell Band, et a/. 
Sioux Tribe of Cheyenne River Reservation, SD. Kickapoo Kickapoo Sac and Fox Hopi Nisqually Warm Springs Reservation, Confederated Tribes Warm Springs Reservation, Confederated Tribes Athabaska Indians of Stevens Village, Alaska Tatitlek Village, Alaska, Natives of Choctaw Indians, McGahey Band Delaware, Absentee, et a/. Puyallup Seminole Nation, Oklahoma Seminole Squaxin Stillaguamish Steilacoom Iowa 
Sac and Fox Hopi Village of Shungopavi Pueblo de Isleta Wyandot Wyandot San Juan Yana Potawatomi, Citizen Band, et a/. Potawatomi, Citizen Band, et a/. Cowlitz Sac and Fox Sac and Fox Chippewa, Little Shell Band, et al. 
Chippewa Cree, et al. 
Award 
Award 
Award, see Dkt. 31 
Dismissed 
Award 
Transferred to Court of Claims 

Award 
Transfened to Court of Claims 
Dismissed 
Award 
Award 

Award 
Mineral claims transferred to Court of Claims 
Fisheries claims pending 
Pending 
Pending on appeal in the Court of Claims 
Transfened to Court of Claims 

Dismissed 
Transferred to Court of Claims 
Dismissed 

Award Dismissed Transferred to Court of Claims Award Transfened to Court of Claims Transferred to Court of Claims Transferred to Court of Claims Dismissed Interlocutory award on remaining claim with Dkts. 
113, 191, 221 & 246 Dismissed Award Dismissed Award Award Award Award Dismissed Dismissed Dismissed Dismissed Award with Dkt. 27-E Transferred to Court of Claims Dismissed Dismissed Award Award Award Award Dismissed Dismissed Dismissed 
Transferred to Court of Claims Transfened to Court of Claims Dismissed Award, see Dkt. 31 Interlocutory award with Dkts. 15-L & 29-1 Award with Dkts., 15··K & 29-J Award Award Award Interlocutory award on remaining claim with 
Dkts. 113, 191, & 246 Dismissed 
Date 
6/17/60 
I111m 
7/20/64 
9n167 
9/17170 
2/24m 
4/29no 12/15n6 
12/4/57 
7/5/60 
3/1160 
9n167 
7113178 
IOl27m 
6/8/54 
12/15/76 4/23/65 
10/31/74 
3/15m 
12/15/76 8/9173 12115/76 
12/15n6 
12115/76 9/25/63 9/20/78 
3/29/57 2/29/68 3/22/57 3/10/65 12/2/76 7/31/74 10/17173 
6/30nO 
6/4/57 
3/15m 
2/12/57 
8/17178 
5/8n8 
5131n2 
IIn163 
7/31/74 
1I8nO 
7/31n4 
5/12/69 
11123/73 
5/31/57 
6/5/59 
7113/68 7113/68 
10/30/57 7/20/64 8/30/78 4/25173 4/12173 9/29/67 2/14/67 9/20/78 
2/2/78 



Index of Indian Claims by Docket Number, 
September 22, 1978-Continued 

Docket No., 
221-B 221-C 222 
223 
224 

225 
225-A 
225-B 
225-C 
225-D 
226 
227 
228 
229 
230 
231 
231 
232 
233 
234 
235 
236 
236-A 
236-B 
236-C 
236-D 
236-E 

236-F 236-G 236-H 236-1 236-J 236-K 236-L 236-M 236-N 237 238 239 240 241 242 243 244 245 246 247 248 249 250 25O-A 251 251-A 
252 253 254 255 256 257 258 259 259-A 260 261 262 263 264 
Iribe, Band, or Group
Chippewa Cree, et 01. 
Chippewa Cree, et a!. 
Colville Reservation, Confederated Tribes as 

Representatives of the Palouse Bands, et a!. 
San Carlos of Arizona 
Colville Reservation, Confederated Tribes as 

Representatives of the Moses Band, et 0/. 
Omaha 

Omaha }
Omaha 
Omaha 
Omaha 
Caddo 
Pueblo of Laguna 
Pima-Maricopa, Gila River
Navajo 
Cayuga 
Iowa 
Sac and Fox 
Sac and Fox 
Swinomish 
Chinook 
Maricopa-Ak Chin Reservation Indians 
Pima-Maricopa, Gila River
Pima-Maricopa, Gila River 
Pima-Maricopa, Gila River 
Pima-Maricopa, Gila River 
Pima··Maricopa, Gila River
Pima-Maricopa, Gila River 

Pima-Maricopa, Gila River 
Pima-Maricopa, Gila River 
Pima-Maricopa, Gila River
Pima-Maricopa, Gila River 
Pima-Maricopa, Gila River 
Pima-Maricopa, Gila River 
Pima-Maricopa, Gila River 
Pima-Maricopa, Gila River 
Pima-Maricopa, Gila River 
Chehalis 
Kalapuya, et a/. 
Tillamook, et 01. 
Tillamook Band of Tillamooks, et 0/. 
Delaware, Absentee 
Quinaielt and Queets 
Winnebago Tribe and Nation }
Winnebago Tribe and Nation 
Winnebago Tribe and Nation
Chippewa, Pembina, et 01.. 
Seminole 
Seminole Nation, Oklahoma 
Choctaw Nation 
Fort Belknap Indian Community 
Fort Belknap 
Miami, Oklahoma 
Miami, Oklahoma 

Miami, Oklahoma Miami, Oklahoma Miami, Oklahoma Miami, Oklahoma Miami, Oklahoma Kiowa, Comanche, and Apache Kiowa, Comanche, and Apache Kiowa. Comanche. and ApacheKiowa. Comanche, and Apache Skokomish, et 01, Samish Tulalip Tribes. Inc. Kikiallus Umatilla Reservation, Confederated Tribes 
Disposition 
Dismissed Transfened to Court of' Claims 
Award with Dkts  161 & 224  
Dismissed  
Award with Dkts  161 & 222  
Dismissed  
Award  

Transfen'ed to Court of Claims Award Transfen'ed to Court of Claims Transfened to Court of Claims Dismissed Award Award Dismissed Award Award Transferred to Court of Claims Dismissed Award Award Transfen'ed to COUlt of Claims Transferred to Court of Claims Pending in Court of Claims on appeal from final award of 4/5176 
Transfened to COUlt of Claims 
Dismissed 
Dismissed 
Transferred to Court of Claims 
Dismissed 
Dismissed 
Dismissed 
Dismissed 
TransferTed to Court of Claims 
Award 
Dismissed 
Award 
Award 
Award with Dkt 27-A 
Award 
Award 
Interlocutory award with Dkts, 113, 191 & 221 Transfened to Court of Claims Award Award Dismissed Pending Award Award Pending Award with Dk!. 131 Award with Dkt. 124-B, subject to offsets Award with Dkt. 124-C Award with Dkts.. 124-D, E, &. F Award with Dkt. 259-A 
Award 
Award with Dkt. 257 
Dismissed 
Award 
Dismissed 
Award 
Award 
Date 
4/5n4 
5/8178 
4/5/65
8/23/63 
4/5165 
1016/53 
2111160 
5/8178 
12111170 
518178 
2/15178 
9/22/71 
5/12/69 11123/73 3/2/65 7/6172 1114170 
7113178 
2/26169 9/30176 9/30176 7113178 7113178 
7113178 
518178 
9/30174 
3/24171
5/8178 
6127/69 
12/12/68 12112/68 
12/12/68 
12/15176 
1017163 
11/17/54 
6117158 8/27/62 11124171 4/17/63 
9/3170 
9/20178
7113178 
12/23174 7/15176 
11120/62 
5/31/61 
1/9/69 
1/8170 918178 12/3/68 1213168 
7/17/74 1/29/68 7/17/74 
3/30/53 1016171 1/13/58 617172 
2111166 
119 



Index of Indian Claims by Docket Number, 
September 22, 1978-Continued 

Docket No. Tribe, Band, or Group Disposition Date 
264-A 264-B  Umatilla Reservation, Confederated Tribes Umatilla Reservation, Confederated Tribes  l f  Award  2/11/66  
265 266  Coos Bay Pueblo de Acoma  Dismissed Award  7/11/52 6/17n0  
267  Chickasaw  Dismissed  9/16/57  
268 269  Chickasaw Chickasaw  Dismissed Award  4/20/62 7/17/59  
270  Chickasaw  Dismissed  1/16/69  
271  Cherokee  Dismissed  3/19/69  
272 27.3  Creek Creek  Award, subject to appeal Award  9/22178 3/14/73  
274  Creek  Dismissed  11/5/68  
275  Creek Nation of Oklahoma  Award  8/23172  
276 277  Creek Nation Creek Nation  Award Transferred to Court of Claims  8/17/66 7/13178  
278  Tlingit and Haida, et al.  Dismissed  6/7/72  
278-A 278.. B  llingit and Haida and Angoon Tribe Blackfeet and Gros Ventre Tribes  Dismissed Award  6/7172 11/26173  
279  Blackfeet and Gros Ventre Tribes  Dismissed  12/10/68  
279-A  Blackfeet and Gros Ventre Tribes  Award  8/23/68  
279-A  Sioux of Fort Peck, Intervenor  Award  8/23/68  
279-A  Assiniboine of Fort Belknap and Fort Peck,  
Intervenor  Award  6/30/69  
279-B 279-C  Blackfeet and Gros Ventre Tribes Blackfeet and Gros Ventre Tribes  Dismissed Pending  8/16/65  
279·D  Blackfeet  Pending  
280  Creek Nation East of the Mississippi  Dismissed  9/13/74  
281  Creek Nation East of the Mississippi  Dismissed  9/10/68  
282  Cherokee, Eastern Band  Dismissed  2/20/59  
282-A  Cherokee, Eastern Band  
282-B  Cherokee, Eastern Band  
282··C  Cherokee, Eastern Band  
282··D  Cherokee, Eastern Band  
282-E  Cherokee, Eastern Band  Award  9/J1172  
282.. F  Cherokee, Eastern Band  
282-G  Cherokee, Eastern Band  
282-H  Cherokee, Eastern Band  
282-1  Cherokee, Eastern Band  
282-J  Cherokee, Eastern Band  
282-K  Cherokee, Eastern Band  
282-L  Cherokee, Eastern Band  
283  Mohaves of Colorado River Tribes, ei at.  Award with Dkt. 295  9/26173  
28J.·A  Colorado River Indian Tribes, et al.  Dismissed  .  4/23/65  
283-B 284  Colorado River Indian Tribes, et al. Gambell, Native Village of  Transferred to Court of Claims Dismissed  7/13/78 3/22172  
285 286  Unalakleet, Native Village of, et at. Shungnak, Native Village of  Dismissed Dismissed  8/16172 8/16/72  
287 288 289 289  Nisgah Washoe Tribe of Nevada and California Peoria, Piankeshaw Delaware, Absentee, et aJ..  Dismissed Award Award Award  9/7/72 12/2/70 2/24/71 2/24/71  
290 291 292  Oneida of Wisconsin Pima-Maricopa, Salt River Creek  Dismissed Transfened to Court of Claims Dismissed  6/30/67 12/15/76 2/18/59  
293 294 295  Swinomish Tribal Community Skagit, Lower (Whidbey Island Skagits) Mohave Tribe of Arizona, California, and Nevada,  Dismissed Award  6/25/71 10/13/71  
et at.  Award with Dkt 283  10/26173  
295-A  Mohave Tribe of Arizona, California, and Nevada,  
296  et at. Skokomish  Award Award  9/18/75 5/24/63  
297 298  Cherokee Delaware  Dismissed Award with Dkt. 72  3/19/69 9/10/69  
299 300 30o-A 300-B 301  NavajoStockbridge Munsee Community, et at. Stockbridge Munsee Community, et at. Stockbridge Munsee Community, et at. Oneida Nation of New York, et at.  Transferred to Court of Claims Award Pending Award with Dkt 84 Pending  12/27176 5/30173 12128173  
302 303  Ottawa Ottawa  Award with Dkt. 133-A, subject to appeal Award  8/17178 2/11165  
120  



Index of Indian Claims by Docket Number, 
September 22, 1978-Continued 

Docket No. Tribe, Band, or Group Disposition Date
._-------­
304 Ottawa Award 4/25/73 305 Ottawa Award 4/25/73306 Potawatomi, Citizen Band, et at.. Award with Okts 15-P & 29-N 7/14178 307 Potawatomi, Citizen Band, et at.. Dismissed 5/11/59 308 Potawatomi, Citizen Band, et at.. Interlocutory award with Dkts. 15-1 & 29-G 9/22/78 309 Potawatomi, Citizen Band, et ai, Award with Okts, 128, et ai, subject to offsets 918178 310 Potawatomi, Citizen Band, et al Award with Okts, 128, et al., subject to offsets 9/8/78 311 Potawatomi, Citizen Band, et al Award with Okts. 15-D & 29-B, subject to appeal 9/20178 312 Potawatomi, Citizen Band, et ai, Dismissed 12/22/66 313 Peoria, Kaskaskia Award, subject to appeal 9120178 314 
Amended Peoria, Wea Award 7/29/63 314-A Peoria, Wea Award, subject to appeal 9/20/78 314-B Peoria, Wea Interlocutory award 9/8/78 314-C Peoria, Wea Award 1/28/70 314-0 Peoria, Wea Award 1/8/70 314-E Peoria, Wea Award 7/18/67 315 Kickapoo Award, su~ject to offsets 8/25178 316 Kickapoo Award 9/29/67 316-A Kickapoo Award 9/24/70 317 Kickapoo Award 2/11/70 318 Kickapoo Award 6111169 319 Quechan of Fort Yuma Reservation, California Award 8/5/65 320 Quechan of Fort Yuma Reservation, Califomia Transferred to Court of Claims 12/15/76 321 Tuscarora Award 2/21/73 322 Ponca Award 9/8/71 323 Ponca Award 8/23/72 324 Ponca Award 8/27/65 325 California Indians, Morongo Band of Mission 
Indians Dismissed 3/28/55326 Shoshone of Wind River Reservation, Wyoming Closed [all causes having been severed out] 7/3/68 326-A Shoshone, Western Identifiable Group (Represented 
by Temoak Bands) Transferred to Court of Claims 5/8178326-B Shoshone, Goshute Award with Okt. 326-J 1115n5 326-C Shoshone-Bannock Tribes, Fort Hall, Idaho TransferT'ed to Court of Claims 12/15/76 326-0 Shoshone-Bannock Tribes, Fort Hall, Idaho } 326-E Shoshone-Bannock Tribes, Fort Hall, Idaho Award in Okts 326-D, 326-E, .326·F, 326-G, 326-H, 2113/68 326-F Shoshone-Bannock Tribes, Fort Hall, Idaho 366, & 367 326-G Shoshone..Bannock Tribes, Fort Hall, Idaho 326-H Shoshone Tribe 326-1 Shoshone, Lemhi Award 3/8/71 326-J Shoshone, Goshute Award with Okt 326-B 1lI5175 326-K Shoshone, Westem Identifiable Group (Represented 
by Temoak Bands) Pending in Court of Claims on appeal from, inter 
alia, award of 8/15177 327 Ute Indians, Confederated Bands of Award 2/18/65 328 Ute, Southern Tribe or Band Dismissed 7/14nI 329 Cheyenne-Arapaho Dismissed 12/10/68329-A Cheyenne and Arapaho (Southern, et al,.) l 
Award 10/18/65
329-B Cheyenne and Arapaho (Southem, et al ..) J 329-C Cheyenne Indians, Northem Award 11127/63329-0 Cheyenne and Northern Arapaho Award 6/27/63330 Paiute Nation, Southern, et aJ. Award with Okts, 88 & 33Q-A 1118/65 33Q-A Paiute Nation, Southern, et ai, Award with Okts 88 & 330 1118/65 331 Spokane l 
Award 2121/67
331-A Spokane r 
332 Sioux, Yankton Dismissed 9/30/60 
332-A Sioux, Yankton Award 1/28/69 
332-B Sioux, Yankton Award 9/8172 
332-C Sioux, Yankton Award, subject to appeal 8/31/78 
332-0 Sioux, Yankton TransferT'ed to Court of Claims 7113/78 
333 Shasta Award, see Okt, 31 7/20/64 
334 Shawnee, Absentee of Oklahoma, et aJ. Award 5/29/61 
334-A Shawnee, Absentee of Oklahoma, et ai, Dismissed 3/22/63 
334-B Shawnee, Absentee of Oklahoma, et at.. Award 5/19nI 
335 Shawnee, Eastern of Oklahoma, et al. Award with Okt 64 and the Shawnee portion of 6/3m

Dkt 338 
336 Shawnee, Eastern of Oklahoma and Shawnee, 
Absentee of Oklahoma, et a/ Dismissed 11/26/68 
337 Delaware Award 8/5/63 

121 


Docket No. 
338 
338 

338 
338 
338 
338 
339 
340 
341 
341··A 
341-B 
341-C 
341-D 
341-E 
342 
342-A 
342-B 
342..C 
342-D 
342-E 
342-F 
342-G 
342-H 
342-1 
343 
344 
345 
346 
347 
348 
349 

350 350-A 350-B 350-C 350··D 350-E 350-F 350-G 350-H 351 351-A 352 353 354 355 356 357 357-A 358 359 
360 361 362 
363 
363 
363 
363 
Index of Indian Claims by Docket Number, 
September 22, 1978-Continued 

Tribe, Band, Of' Group Disposition 
Delaware, Absentee of Oklahoma, et al. Shawnee, Eastern and Absentee of Oklahoma, 
et at.. Peoria of Oklahoma, et al. Kickapoo of Kansas and Oklahoma, et al. Ottawa of Oklahoma, et al.. Potawatomi, Citizen Band, et al. Iowa Tuscarora Seneca-Cayuga of Oklahoma Seneca-Cayuga of Oklahoma Seneca..Cayuga of Oklahoma Seneca-Cayuga of Oklahoma Seneca..Cayuga of Oklahoma Seneca-Cayuga of Oklahoma 
Seneca Nation  
Seneca Nation  
Seneca Nation  l  
Seneca Nation  r  
Seneca Nation  
Seneca Nation  
Seneca Nation  
Seneca Nation  
Seneca Nation  
Seneca Nation  
Cayuga  

Six Nations, et al. Papago of Arizona Choctaw, Ridaught Band Pitt River Cheyenne··Arapaho Ute Tribe of Uintah and Ouray Reservation, on 
Behalf of Uncompahgre Band of Ute Indians Fort Berthold, Three Affiliated Tribes Fort Berthold, Three Affiliated Tribes Fort Berthold, Three Affiliated Tribes Fort Berthold, Three Affiliated Tribes Fort Berthold, Three Affiliated Tribes Fort Berthold, Three Affiliated Tribes Fort Berthold, Three Affiliated Tribes Fort Berthold, Three Affiliated Tribes Fort Berthold, Three Affiliated Tribes Chemehuevi l Chemehuevi f Aleut Community of St Paul Island Navajo Pueblo of San I1defonso Pueblo of Santo Domingo Pueblo of Santa Clara Pueblo of Taos Pueblo of Taos Pueblo of Nambe Sioux, Lower Indian Community, et al. 
Sioux, Lower Indian Community, et al.. Sioux, Lower Indian Community, et al.. Sioux, Lower Indian Community, et al. 
Sioux, Lower Indian Community, et al. 
Sioux, Lower Indian Community, et al. (Second Claim, Act of 1904) Sioux, Lower Indian Community, et al. (Second Claim, 1867 Treaty and 1872 Agreement) Sioux, Lower Indian Community, et al. (Second Claim, 1867 Treaty and 1872 Agreement) 
Award with Dkt. 27-B 
Award with Dkts. 64 & 335 
Pending 
Pending 
Pending 
Pending 
Dismissed 
Dismissed 
Dismissed 

Award 
Dismissed 
Dismissed 
Dismissed 
Dismissed 
Award with Dkt 368-A 

Award with Dkt 368 
Dismissed 
Dismissed 
Award 
Award 
Dismissed 
Award 
Award 
Dismissed 
Award with Dkt 102 
Dismissed 
Award, see Dkt. 31 
Dismissed 

Award Dismissed Award with Dkts.. 350-E & H Dismissed Award Award Award with Dkts. 350-A & H Award Transferred to Court of Claims Award with Dkts. 350-A & E 
Award 
Award with Dkt. 369-A, subject to appeal Transferred to Court of Claims Transferred to Court of Claims Pending Transferred to Court of Claims Transferred to Court of Claims Award Transferred to Court of Claims Awards for the Sisseton & Wahpeton Tribes, and 
the Medawakanton & Wahpakoota Tribes Award for the Medawakanton Tribe Award for the Medawakanton Tribe Award for the Medawakanton & Wahpakoota 
Tribes 
Award for the Medawakanton & Wahpakoota Tribes and dismisal of remaining claims in Dkt 363, except the "Second Claim" 
Award for the Sisseton & Wahpeton Bands 
Award for the Sisseton & Wahpeton Bands Additional award for the Sisseton & Wahpeton Bands 
Date 
12/16/77 
6/3/77 
3/22/65 
3/9/65 
9/4/58 
6/11/75 
4/4173 
5/23173 
9/4/58 10/3/60 1l/22172 
3/13/74 
12/30/68 
5/3172 
3/13/74 
2/3/77 
8/30/63 
3/13/74 
5/11178 
3/1/63 
7/21/76 
8/22/68 
7120/64 
3/13/64 
2/18/65 12/10/68 6/18/69 3/30/71 
3/17176 
3/17176 

6/18/69 
8/23/72 

2117/77 
6/18/69 1/18/65 8/30/78 
12/27176 
5/8/78 
5/8/78 5/8/78 3/I7I76 5/8/78 7/25/67 
7/25/67 7/25/67 
7/25/67 7/25/67 
2/27174 
9/I4/77 
12/1/77 


J 



Index of Indian Claims by Docket Number, September 22, 1978-Continued 

Disposition 	Date 
363 364 365 366 367 368 368-A 369  Sioux, Lower Indian Community, et al .. (Remaining part of the second claim consisting of claims for an accounting of money and for the misuse or mismanagement of money) Ottawa-Chippewa Tribe of Michigan Natchez, et af. Bannack Shoshone Nation or Tribe Tonawanda Band of Seneca Indians Tonawanda Band of Seneca Indians Aleut Tribe, et af.  Transferred to the Court of Claims Award Dismissed Award, see Dkt 326-D, et af.. Award, see Dkt. 326-D, et al .. Award with Dkts. 342-B & 342-C Award with Dkt. 342··A By order of 8/30178 the claim of Aleut Community of St. George Island was finally severed from Dkt. 369, given Dkt No. 369-A, and consolidated with Dkt. 352 Remaining claims in Dkt. 369  12/15176 4/1/77 2/24/54 2113/68 2/13/68 3/13/74 11/22/72  
369·A 370 371*  Aleut Community of St. George Island Palmer, Alaska, Natives of Wichita Indian Tribe and its Affiliated Bands and Groups, namely the Keechi, Tawakonie, and Waco  were pending on date hereof Award with Dkt 352, subject to appeal Dismissed Transferred to Court of Claims  8/30/78 3/15/72 6/8178  
372*  Wichita Indian Tribe and its Affiliated Bands and  
373*  Groups, namely the Keechi, Tawakonie, and Waco Wichita Indian Tribe and its Affiliated Bands and  Pending  
374*  Groups, namely the Keechi, Tawakonie, and Waco Wichita Indian Tribe and its Affiliated Bands and  Pending  
375*  Groups, namely the Keechi, Tawakonie, and Waco Wichita Indian Tribe and its Affiliated Bands and  Pending  
Groups, namely the Keechi, Tawakonie, and Waco  Pending  

*Petition received after August 13, 1951, pursuant to Public Law 95-247, approved March 21, 1978 
Note:· 	Public Law 94-465, approved October 8, 1976 (90 Stat. 1990) provides for transfer to the United States Court of Claims of all cases before the Commission not completely a<\judicated by September 30, 1978 
Sets of the Commission's decisions (opinions, findings of fact, and orders), including indexes thereto, and decisions in particular cases are available from: . 
Clearwater Publishing Company, Inc., 1995 Broadway, New York, New York 10021. (This firm can supply both microfiche and printed copies of the decisions, and it can also supply copies of briefs, transcripts of oral testimony, expert witness reports, and other materials.. ) 
National Indian Law Library of the Native American Rights Fund, 1506 Broadway, Boulder, Colorado 80302.. (Mrs. Diana Lim Garry is the librarian..) 
Testimony and written reports in Indian Claims Commission cases by anthropologists, ethnologists, and other experts, compiled and edited by Dr. David Agee Horr, formerly Professor of Anthropology, Brandeis University, now with Peabody Museum, Harvard University, are available in printed volumes from: Garland Publishing, Inc., 545 Madison Avenue, New York, New York, 10022. 



Fiscal Year Totals of Dockets Completed and Awards l 
Number of Dockets 
Completed 

Fiscal By By Number of Total Amount Cumulative Total Year Dismissals Awards Awards of Awards of Awards 
1947 $$ 
1948 
1949 7 

19.50 12 1951 7 2 2 3,489,843.58 3,489,843.58 1952 8 3 3 2,998,220.02 6,488,063.60 1953 7 6,488,063.60 1954 8 1 1 927,668.04 7,415,731.64 1955 4 11 864,107.5.5 8,279,839.19 1956 1 3 3 1,515,494.95 9,795,334.14 1957 12 1 1 433,013.60 10,228,347.74 1958 10 4 4 6,860,238.54 17,088,586.28 1959 12 2 1 3,288,974.90 20,377,561.18 1960 7 13 8 21,588,007.51 41,965,658.69 1961 5 5 5 14,926,255.11 56,891,823.80 1962 5 2 3 18,063,859.65 74,955,683.45 1963 9 8 9 18,319,187.20 93,274,870.65 1964 79 11 15,796,254.69 109,071, 12.5 .34 1965 7 27 17 57,019,352.93 166,090,478.27 1966 2 12 11 38,701,569.58 204,792,047.85 1967 2 7 6 21,497,766.74 226,289,814.59 1968 3 23 16 43,576,732.73 269,866,547.32 1969 23 24 20 32,025,817.01 301,892,364.33 1970 2 14 13 44,254,099.43 346,146,463.76 1971 4 20 16 46,621,560.61 392,768,024.37 1972 II 14 10 33,078,111.56 425,846,135.93 
1973 II 32 18 40,837,122.35 466,683,258.28 1974 11 24 20 46,409,564.06 513,092,822.34 1975 3 9 7 35,945,458.57 549,038,280.91 1976 15 II 63,055,867.25 612,094,148.16 Jul-Sep '76 5 4 27,825,465.90 639,919,614.06 1977 11 12 67,604,270.07 707,523,884.13 1978 4 31 24 110,648,722.51 818,172,606.64 
204 342 274 
I Ihis tabulation includes final awards and dismissals entered by the Commission through September 30. 1978 rhe 342 dockets shown as completed by awards include 20 dockets not reported to the Congress as concluded Seventeen of these dockets have final awards entered totaling $88.137.342.21 on which appeal time is running (Okts. IJ·E; 15-0,29-8 and 311; 15-L, 29-1 and 216; 74; 13J·A and 302; 272; 313; 314·A; 314·8; 332·C; and 352 and 369-A); two having final awards totaliM, $31,596.419.79 are fending before the Court of Claims on appealsfromtheCommission'sdetenoinations(Okts. 236-Eand326-K);andonehavingafinalaward of$1.115.706.20a moedbytheCourt 0 Claimsispendingonapetitiontothe SupremeCourtforawrit ofcertioraritotheCourt ofClaims(Okt 169).Appealtime isrunningfromordersdismissingthree ofthe204docketsshowncompletedbydismissals(Dkts. 120 
130 and 252)
'The first Commissioners took their oaths of office on April 10, 1947 




Index to the Map 
Indian Land Areas Judicially Established 

Introduction * 
For scores of years, American Indian tribes have 
been litigating claims against the United States 
Government, seeking damages for various categories 
of wrongs done them. Perhaps the most common 
type of claim has been that land owned by an Indian 
tribe under the doctrine of "Indian title" was taken 
from the tribe without adequate compensation being 
paid. One step in a tribe's proving such a claim is 
demonstrating that a particular tract was indeed 
owned by it by Indian title: that the tribe had 
exclusively occupied and used a tract for a long 
time. The "Indian Land Areas Judicially Established" 
map summarizes the results of all such successful 
claims and depicts the tracts to which Indian owner­
ship was established through a judicial proceeding. 
Thus the map joins two themes: the first that of 
Indian history, showing where the various tribes 
were originally located, and the second that ofIndian 
legal history, where the reality of Indian history has 
been filtered through an Anglo-Saxon adversary judicial process. 1 
A. Indian Claims: The Judicial Process 
The legal rule has always been that the United States as a sovereign cannot be sued without its consent, and that consent has not been freely given in our history. The United States Court of Claims was established in 1855 as a general forum before which citizens could present claims against the 
"This introduction was prepared by Richard W. Yarborough. Commissioner, who also edited the map and directed the compilation of data for it, and accepts responsi­bility for any errors that may occur Compiling the data for the Indian Claims Com·· mission were J. William Nutter, Laurence A Davis, Deputy Counsels, Donald Hyde, Senior Attorney, Harmon S. Maxson, Kathleen A McKee, James Roberson, former staff attorneys, Consultant: Guy M. Lovell, Bureau of Indian Affairs (ret.) 
The tracts were bounded and colored by John E. Roberts, Cartographer, Bureau of'Land Management The map was compiled and produced by the US. Geological Survey 
1Any mapping of' Indian lands must draw on the results of the prodigious industry of Charles C. Royce. His massive compilation. published as Indian l.and Cessions in the United States, 18th Annual Report of the Bureau of American Ethnology, Part 2 (1899), depicts on a series of maps the Indian lands ceded piece by piece by the many Indian treaties of cession. His translation of the often·vague treaty calls into precise boundaries created an indispensable reference for all subsequent students of Indian land areas; many "Royce Areas" will be found intact on this map 
Thus mapping the cessions, however, is a subtractive process. and often the cession did not match the true ownership of the land, This map is a positive expression of land determined to have been owned. without special reference to the cession or extinguishment process The area numbers on this map do not correspond to the Royce Area numbers 
United States, but its jurisdiction was limited and specifically excluded Indian tribes as litigants. Over the years some Indian tribes made compelling argu­ments to Congress that their claims demanded justice. Individual jurisdictional acts were passed allowing named tribes to sue the United States in the Court of Claims on causes defined in the statute. 2 Some of these acts were drafted broadly enough to allow claims based on loss of Indian title lands, and resulted in decisions defining the extent of a tribe's lands.3 These results are mapped here. 
Eventually the volume and variety of requests to Congress for special jurisdictional acts became so great that in 1946 Congress devised a general solu­tion: the Indian Claims Commission. 4 This became the forum to receive all Indian tribal claims accruing before 1946. Many of the claims filed were for com­pensation for Indian title lands lost by treaty or otherwise, and thus began a large volume of litigation to prove the one-time existence ofthe tribes' Indian title to the appropriate tracts. In general, the cases proceeded by the attorneys for the parties (the Indian tribe on one side and the U.S. Department of Justice on the other) presenting, at a trial before the Commission, the testimony of expert witnesses such as anthropologists, historians, and ethnohis­torians. The witnesses' often-differing opinions as to tribal locations and their extent were reconciled by the Commission in its decision announcing what had been proved, and delineating the boundaries of the Indian title tract.5 
'Fol a general review of the Court of Claims cases, see the article by Glen A Wilkinson, Indian Tribal Claim, Before Ihe Court of Claim" 55 Georgetown LJ 511 (1966) 
3Citations to those Court of Claims cases will be, found in the index under areas 50, 83,84,86, 107 and lOS. (But see Section C, below.) 
One successful case is not mapped because the lands are located in Alaska, Tlingil and Haida Indians af Alaska v. United Slat", 147 Ct CI 315 (1959). That decision is the only one establishing Indian title in Alaska. 
For examples of unsuccessful cases see Duwamish Tribe. el" al. v, United States. 79 Ct CL 530 (1934); Wichila Indiart' el. al v. Uniled Slate" 89 Ct CL 378 (1939) 
'60 Stat 1049 (1946), 25 USC 7O.-.v (1976) 
~The decisions of the Indian Claims Commission are collected serially in a set now running from Vols. I to 43. Many leading libraries have assembled sets of the decisions as issued. The decisions have also been collected and issued in a micro­fiche format by the Clearwater Publishing Co., Inc. 1995 Broadway, New York, NY., 10023, which firm has also issued microfiche collections of the expert testimony delivered before the Commission, and the legal briefs filed there. Copies of individual decisions may be obtained from the National Indian l.aw Library, 1506 Broadway, Boulder, Colorado 80302 



It was not firmly established until 19.5.5 that Indian 
title lands could form the basis for compensation 
under the Indian Claims Commission Act, but that 
category ofcase carne to provide probably the largest 
part of the Commission's business,,6 By 1978, the 
final year of the Commission, decisions in cases 
requiring a finding of Indian title had been entered 
in every such claim filed before the Commission, 
and the results are mapped here. In that respect 
the Commission's work and the map of Indian 
Land Areas Judicially Established are complete. 7 
Each map area enclosed by a solid line represents 
a case, usually a docket of the Indian Claims Com­
mission, with an identification number referenced to 
this Index. A dashed line around an area is used 
when the case was settled favorably to the plaintiffs 
before exact boundaries were established. S 
B. Indian Title 
However often ignored in practice, the legal doctrineofeveryEuropean colonizer ofthe Americas acknowledged that the Indians had certain rights to the peaceful possession of their land. England acknowledged such Indian rights, and in general her American colonies expanded through purchase of lands from the tribe claiming them. 9 The United States took no different view, and Chief Justice John Marshall firmly nailed the doctrine of Indian title into American Constitutional law. 10 
Indian title, original Indian title, or aboriginal title refers to the possessory right of an Indian tribe to occupy and use the area ofland it has traditionally used,u It is conceived ofas a title superior to all but the sovereign; neither settler nor state could take it away.12 However, the United States as sovereign is deemed to have the power to extinguish or terminate 
'Otoe and Minouria Trlbr v. Uniled StaleS, 131 Ct CI. 593 (1955), aff"g in part, 
rev'g in part, 2 Ind, CI Comm 335 (1953) 

'TIn niost cases, a final money judgment for the tribe based on an unconscionable consideration paid for the subject land~ has re!\ulted. Hov.ever. not all of the Commission's boundary decisions 35 yet have been tested on appeal or have progressed otherwise to the point where it can be said that the map's boundaries are beyond possible furure modification. 
During 1978. Congressional approval \\-as given to two additional tribes. the Wichita and Zuni, to file claims based on original Indian titJe Future action by the Court of Claims in th~se cases may result in additional boundaries to be drawn 
tiE.g., Area J33. Kiowa. Comanche and Apache, v.hich "'as a case settled before the possible outer boundary of the claim could be foreseen clearly In some other cases settled at a similarly early stage, Area 37. Cherokee, and Area 118" Indians of Cali·· fomia, the possibJe outer limit of the claim could be marked more precisely 
9~e the Introduction by Cyrus T'homas to Royce. Indian Land Ce.s.sions in the United SW/e.s. supra; Felix S, Cohen, Handbook of Federal Indian LaM, Washington, DC (1942) 
'OJohnson and Graham's Lessee v, M Intosh" 8 Wheat 543 (1823): Cherokee Nation 
v. Georgia, 5 Pet 1 (1831); WoreeSla v Grorgla. 6 Pet 515 (1832) 
llqtoe a~d Mis.wuria Tribe v Uniled Stales, supra; Cohen. Original Indian Tille, 32 Mmn. L Rev 28 (1947) 
uJohnson and Graham's l.essee v, M1nlosh, supra 
Indian title at will. 13 An Indian title is held not to be properly protected against confiscation without just compensation by the Fifth Amendment to the Constitution. 14 
It must be observed that Indian title as used in our legal system is completely a creation of our legal system, and American Indians may properly dis­claim having had any choice in creating .it or defining it. Indian title as developed in the American courts is a very rough compromise between a system oftitIes dependent on written instruments and surveyed lines and a system that in simpler times may well have r~jected the notion that land can be "owned" at all. 15 
Three factual elements appear in the usual formu­lation of the requirements for proving a valid Indian title: the extent of the use and occupancy, the exclusiveness ofthe use and occupancy, and whether the use continued "for a long time." Since a title that is based on use alone might at its most expansive be argued to give a tribe title to all land that any member of the tribe had ever wandered over, these elements provide some focus for sorting out what is one tribe's rather than another's. The extent of the use and occupancy usually coincides with what is shown to be the area used for subsistence by all the members of the tribe. 16 Not only agricultural use, but religious use, hunting and gathering use, even sporadic irregular hunting use, may, if not in con­flict with another tribe's use, bring an area within the compass of a tribe's Indian title lands.1 7 
At some time or another a particular tract may have seen members of more than one tribe hunting over it. Our legal prejudices have strained at allowing there to be "ownership" of an area apparently free for use by all. Therefore, a tribe asserting Indian title must show exclusive use: that the tract was its alone. IS The tribe does not have to show formal political hegemony over an area, or assertion and exercise of power to exclude all members of other 
13"Extinguishment of Indian title based on aboriginal possession is of course a dif­ferent matter. The power of Congress in that regard is supreme. The manner. method and time of such extinguishment raise political not justiciable issues. Buttz v Northern P R, Co,. supra. As stated by Chief Justice Marshall in Johnson v. Jf'lnrosh. supra, 'the exclusive right of the United States to extinguish' Indian title has never been doubted And \\hether it be done by treaty, by the ,sword, by pur­chase, by the exercise of complete dominion adverse to the right of occupancy, or otherwise. its justness is not open to inquiry in the courts, Beecher v. Welherb.. , 95 US 517,525" United .States v Santa Fe Paciji, R Co 314 U.s. 339. 347 (1941) 
"United States v Alcea Band ofTillamooks 341 U.s 48 (1951); Trr-Hit·,]on Indiuns 
v. United States, 348 US 272 (955) 
1$". • No tribe has the right to sell. even to each other, much less to strangers., . SeJl a country! Wh} nol .sel/the air, the great sea, as hell as Ihe earth? Did not the Great Spirit make them all for use of his children? Tecumseh, as quoted in Armstrong, I Have SpoAen, 19 I 
"See United States v. 5rminole Indians, 180 Cl. CL 375 (1968). aff"g 13 Ind. CI Comm 326 (1964) 
1'Even inaccessible mountain crests on the borders or within used areas may be subject to Indian title Tlinget and Haida Indian.. v. Uniled States, 147 Ct. CI 315 (1959) 
"Hualapai Indians v. Unitrd States II Ind CI Comm 447 (962) 


tribes. Usually a more intensive and persistent use of an area as compared to a casual and incidental use by another tribe will be sufficient for Indian title.19 Raiding into a tribe's Indian title area will not defeat its title, nor will its raids create title. 20 A tribe may permit guests to use its lands without defeating its title.21 But since often the only evidence of title is the observation of use by individual Indians, common use tends to defeat title" The decisions have not looked with favor on agruments that common use implies ajoint ownership.22 Joint Indian title by two or more tribes is a theoretical possibility, and has been discovered once,23 but mere common use allows too many other inferences to be drawn (owner? guest? passing through?) to allow title to be decreed in one tribe or the other or both. From the map, one may observe that this requirement seems often to have led to the finding of "buffer zones" between tribes, while in other cases the evidence has allowed the drawing of more precise boundaries. 
Indian title also requires use of the area "for a long time." The decisions reflect an unwillingness to find ownership of a specific tract in a nomadic tribe wandering over many areas; some degree of continuous association with an area has been required. However, no example comes to mind of a tribe so nomadic that it was denied having Indian title lands located somewhere.24 Perhaps 20 to 50 years seems judicially acceptable as "a long time" under appropriate circumstances.25 
C. Indian vs. Recognized Title 
Along with the power of Congress to terminate Indian title at will goes the power of Congress to invest a tribe with a more secure title. When Congress by treaty or statute acknowledged that a particular tract belonged to a certain tribe, a "recognized" or "reservation" title was created giving that tribe a full beneficial interest as private property protected by the Fifth Amendment to the Constitution.26 Com­monly the Indian treaties provided for a cession of 
IIUnited'statts v" Seminole Indians. supra; Spokane Tribe of Indians v, Uni'ted 
State', 163 Ct CL 58 (1%3) 
"Papago Tribe v. United States, 19 Ind. CI Comm 3940%8); Omaha Tribe v 
United States, 4 Ind. CI Comm 627 (1957) 

"Creek Nation v United 'states, 23 Ind CL Comm 1 (1970) 

"Iowa and Sac and Fox v. United States, 195 Ct CI 365 (1971), .ff'g 22 Ind CL Comm 232 (1%9) UUnited Slater v. Pueblos oiSan Ilde!onJo, Santo Domingo and S'anta Clara. 206Ct 
Cl 649 (1975), .ff·g 30 Ind CL Comm 234 (1973) 
"But see Wic'hita Indian' v, United States, 89 Ct CL 378 (1939) 
Sf)Uni"Ied States Y. Seml'nole Indians, supra: Sac and Fox I'ribe v, United States, 

179 Ct, CL 8 (1%7), 
"Shoshone Tribe v. United 5tates, 299 US 476 (1937); United Stat" v Cruk Nation, 295 U S 103 (1935) 
a tribe's Indian title lands and confirmed to it a smaller tract as a reservation, within or without the former Indian title lands. 27 This map does not attempt to chart the diminished reservations created in that manner, but does show large areas of land judged to be held by recognized title where the tracts were originally occupied by the tribes as in Indian title. 
Some treaties negotiated with Indian tribes promised large areas not ceded by the treaty would be left to the tribes as "their permanent home." (Of course, cessions later were obtained of most such areas when the tides of settlers seemed to require it.) Courts later concluded that such treaties created recognized title to the unceded areas, but sometimes which tribe owned which tract could only be determined by subsequent treaties of cession. Three such treaties affecting large areas were the Treaty ofGreeneville in 1795 (lands in the Old North­west),28 the Treaty ofPrairie du Chien in 1825 (Sioux and Chippewa lands in the upper Mississippi area),29 and the Treaty of Fort Laramie in 1851 (Northern Great Plains).30 The great advantage to those tribes as litigants was that their aboriginal use of every quarter of the claimed area did not have to be proved as in an Indian title case.31 
These areas have been included in this map since they are the areas oforiginal occupancy ofthe tribes. Even though mapping these areas derogates the purity of concept of having an "Indian Title Map," it is necessary to show the existence of considerable Indian lands (and legal activity involving large areas of the United States) based on the original homes of the tribes. 
The treaties involving these areas of recognized title often took cessions from two or more tribes, acknowledged occupants as well as any possible claimants. The result was to create areas of joint title, and judicial problems in sorting out the extent of the interests of the tribes.32 The striping on the map is used to portray such joint title areas, with the stripes applied so as to indicate the approximate proportional ownership of each tribe. 
One large tract, Area 53, is distinctively striped 
to indicate that title to that tract has been found 
independently to be in the Potawatomi and in the 

Ii 1See Royce, supra 
"7 Stat. 49. See Miami Tribe v, United 5ta.." 146 Ct CI 421 (1959), .ff'g (on title) 
21nd CL Comm 617 (1954) 
"7 St.t. 272. See Minnesota Chippewa 7ribe v United Sta..s. 161 Ct CI 258 (1963), 
rev'g 81nd CI Comm 751 (1960) 

"II Stat 749 See Fort Berthold Indian' v Unittd S'tat<s. 71 Ct CI 305 (1930) 
'tSee Miami Tribe v" United Slates" supra 
"See, e.g.• Chippewa Tribe. et 01. v. United Statts, 30 Ind. CI Comm 337 (1973),

.ff'd 207 Ct CI 959 (1975) (Map Are. 4) 

Menominee.33 In a few cases where the determined tract boundaries apparently overlap, both tract boundaries are shown and the overlap area appropri­ately counter-colored (e.g., the north boundary of Area 77). 
D. Tribal Names 
The tribal names shown on the map are those, 
sometimes in shortened form, of the original tribal 
owners of the land. This name may differ from the 
present-day reservation name of the plaintiffs who 
brought the suit and under whose name the case will 
be styled.34 
Some tribal names were placed on the map even though those tribes, for one reason or another, did not ever receive an Indian title adjudication. Their selection was somewhat arbitrary but was designed to show the general original location of tribes prominent in the literature, legal and otherwise. 
All the tracts ofa single tribe have the same color, but similarly named tribes may have different colors assigned if they were distinct land-owning entities. 
"Compare Emigrant Ne~ York Indians v United States. 5 Ind. CI Comm. 560 (1957). atrd 177 Ct CI. 263 (1966) and Prairie Band of POllawatomie Indian, v. United States, 28 Ind.. CI Comm. 454 (1972) 
3tThe tribe or band is usually conceived of as the land·-owning entity in whose name the suit is prosecuted, but no one rationale wiU explain all the cases. An aboriginal entity based on kinship, an entity created by a treaty. or an entity created by forcible placement on a reservation mayan be found as plaintiffs in the cases. Perhaps the most unusual situation is that of the Indians of California (Area J18) comprising most of the many smaJltribes of that state. The holding that this entity is an "other identifi­able group" entitled to present a land claim rests mostly on a history ofprevious Iitiga·· lion as a group. Thompson v.. United States. 122 Ct. CI 348 (1952) This claim waS settled before other tracts lhan those shown on the map were defined 
However, the lands of the Potawatomi, Chippewa, Sioux and Apache were each given the same color throughout regardless of the legal distinctness ofthe component entities. Otherwise, the colors were assigned arbitrarily and no relationship is implied be­tweentracts ofthe samecolorexceptwhereadjacent. 
E. Dates 
Often the homeland of a tribe would shift over time. Every area mapped here is tied to a specific date, given in the Index, when that area was the tribe's by Indian title. The date usually coincides with the time when any of the title was first extinguished, by treaty of cession or otherwise. In general, the dates increase from east to west at the pace the country was settled. 
F. Citations 
The citations given in the Index are to the title decisions only: the phase of an Indian Claims Com­mission case where the boundaries of the owned land are determined. Other indexes must be used to trace the full legal history of the cases and find the ultimate results. 
G. Other Map Features 
A selection of prominent treaty sites and forts are located on the map for reference purposes and the convenience of the reader. 






Map Area Index 

Map Area No.  Tribal Owner  Docket or Case Number  Date Existed  Title Citations  
Seneca  342-A, 368-A, 342-B, C, 368  1797  12 Ind" CI. Comm. 755 (1963) rev'd 173 Ct. CL 917 (1965) 20Ind CL Comm, 177 (1968) 28 Ind" CI. Comm, 12 (1972)  
2  Delaware (lI5) Wyandot (1/5) Potawatomi (lI5) Ottawa (1/5) Chippewa (1/5)  27-E,202 139 29..D l33-A,302 13-E  1805  30 Ind. CI. Comm, 8 (1973) aff'd 207 Ct CL 958 (1975)  
3  Ottawa  133-B  1808  30 Ind. CI. Comm, 388 (1973) aff'd 207 Ct CL 960 (1975)  
4  Delaware (1/10) Ottawa (3/10) Shawnee (1/10) Wyandot (5/10)  27 m-c 64-A 141  1819  30 Ind. CI. Comm, 337 (1973) aff'd 207 Ct CL 959 (1975)  
5  Delaware  27-B  1795  31 Ind" CL Comm. 89 (1973) aff'd in part, rev'd in part, 207 Ct. CI. 254 (1975)  
6  Shawnee  64  1795  31 Ind" CL Comm. 89 (1973) affd in part, rev'd in part, 207 Ct CL 254 (1975)  
7  Potawatomi (1/3) Ottawa (1/3) Chippewa (1/3)  29··Q l33-C B-F  1819  30 Ind. CI. Comm. 337 (1973) aff'd 207 Ct. CL 959 (1975)  
8  Potawatomi  29·E  1807  30 Ind. CI. Comm. 388 (1973) aff'd 207 Ct CL 960 (1975)  
9  Potawatomi  15-M  1821  6 Ind. CI. Comm, 414 (1958)  
10  Potawatomi  15-N  1827  32 Ind. CI. Comm. 461 (1973) aff'd 206 Ct CI. 867 (1975)  
11  Potawatomi  I5-P, 29-N, 306  1832  30 Ind. CI. Comm. 42 (1973) affd 205 Ct CL 765 (1974)  
12  Potawatomi  I5-L, 29-1, 2\6  1816  32Ind" C\  Comm, 400 (1973)  
13  Potawatomi  I5-E, 29-C, 338  1795  3\ Ind, CI. Comm. 89 (1973)  
14  Potawatomi  15-K,29..J, 2\7  1829  11 Ind. CL Comm. 641 (1%2) rev'd in part \79 Ct. CI. 473 (1967)  
15  Potawatomi  I5-C, 29-A, 71  1833  28 Ind" CL Camm. 454 (1972)  
16  Sault St. Marie Band (Chippewa)  18-R  1821  22 Ind. CI. Camm. 85 (1969) aff'd 206 Ct CL 850 (1975)  
17  Ottawa Chippewa  58 18-E  1820  7 Ind  CL Camm  576 (1959)  
18  Saginaw Chippewa  57  1820  22 Ind, CI. Camm, 504 (1970)  
131  





Map Area Index-Continued 

Map 
Area 
No. Tribal Owner 

19 	Saginaw 
Chippewa 

20 	Grand River Band (Ottawa) 
21 	Miami (112) Potawatomi (112) 
22 	Miami (7/10) Potawatomi (3/10) 
23 	Miami 
24 	Miami 
Eel River 

25 	Miami (112) 
Delaware (112) 

26 	Miami (3/4) 
Wea (1/4) 

27 	Potawatomi (112) 
Wea (1/2) 

28 	Potawatomi (1/3) 
Wea (1/3) 
Kickapoo (1/.3) 

29 	Wea (1/2) 
Kickapoo (112) 

30 	Wea 
31 	Dclawan: (liZ) 
Piankesfla.w (1/2) 

32 	Potawatomi (1/2) 
Kickapoo (112) 

33 	Kickapoo 
35 	Piankeshaw 
(peoria) 

36 	Kaskaskia (Peoria) 
37 	Cherokee 
38 	Creek 
39 	Creek 
40 	Creek 
41 	Seminole 
42 	Lake Superior Bands Mississippi Bands (Chippewa) 
Docket or Case Number 
59 
4Q-K 
124-B,254 15-N 
124-B,254 15-N 
67 
131,253 
67 
337 

131,253 
314 

15-D 
314-A 

15-D 
314-A 
315 
314-C 
317 
314 
289 

289 
15-P 315 315 
99 
313 
282-A thru L 
275 272 
21 
73, 151 
18-S 
Date Existed 
1808 1821 1818 1827 1818 1809 1818 1809 1818 1818 
1810 
1818 1804 1819 1819 1805 1803 
1785-1835 1816 1832 
1814 1823 1843 
Title Citations 
30 Ind, CL Comm, 388 (1973) 
6 Ind. CI. Comm. 414 (1958) 
32 Ind. CI. Comm. 461 (1973) aff'd 206 Ct. CI. 867 (1975) 
32 Ind. CI. Comm. 461 (1973) aff'd 206 Ct. CI. 867 (1975) 
2 Ind. CL Comm 617 (1954) aff'd 146 Ct. CI. 421 (1959) 
5 Ind. Cl.. Comm 180 (1957) 
2 Ind" CL Comm. 617 (1954) aff'd 146 Ct. CI. 421 (1959) 
5 Ind. CL Comm. 180 (1957) 
30 Ind. CI. Comm, 42 (1973) aff'd 205 Ct. CI. 765 (1974) 
30 Ind. CI. Comm. 42 (1973) aff'd 205 Ct. CI. 765 (1974) 
10 Ind. CI. Comm. 271 (1962) 20 Ind. CI. Comm. 186 (1969) 2 Ind. CI. Comm" 617 (1954) 19 Ind. CI. Comm. 107 (1968) 
30 Ind. CI. Comm. 42 (1973) 
aff'd 205 Ct. CI. 765 (1974) 

30 Ind. CI. Comm. 42 (1973) 
aff'd 205 Ct. Cl. 765 (1974) 

16 Ind. CI. Comm, 574 (1%6) 
30 Ind. CI. Comm. 42 (1973) aff'd 205 Ct. CI. 765 (1974) 
28 Ind. CL Comm. 386 (1972) (compromised) 
23 Ind. CL Comm, 1 (1970) 
26 Ind. CI. Comm. 410 (1971) [see 77 Ct. CI. 226 (1933)] aff'd 201 Ct. CI. 386 (1973) 
2 Ind. CL Comm. 66 (1952) aff'd 165 Ct. CL 479 (1964) 

13 Ind. CI. Comm. 326 (1964) aff'd 180 Ct. CI. 375 (1967) 
19 Ind. CI. Comm 319 (1968) 




Map Area Index-Continued 

Map 
Area 
No. Tribal Owner 

43 
Lake Superior Bands Mississippi Bands (Chippewa) 
f' 
44 
Lake Superior Bands (Chippewa) 
45 
Bois Forte Band (Chippewa) 
46 Mississippi Bands 
(Chippewa) 

47 Lake Superior Bands Mississippi Bands (Chippewa) 
48 Pillager and Lake Winnibigoshish Bands (Chippewa) 
49 Pillager Band 
(Chippewa) 

50 Red Lake Band 
(Chippewa) 

51 Red Lake Band (2/3) 
Pembina Band (1/3) 
(Chippewa) 

52 Pembina Band 
(Chippewa) 

53 	Potawatomi 
54 	Winnebago 
55 	Sac & Fox 
56 	Sac & Fox 
57 	Sac & Fox 
58 	Sac & Fox 
59 	Sac & Fox 
60 	Iowa (1/2) Sac & Fox (1/2) 
61 	Sac & Fox 
62 	Iowa 
63 	Iowa 
Otoe & Missouria 
(1/4) Iowa (1/4) Omaha (1/4) Sac & Fox (1/4) 
64 
Docket or Case Number 
18-C 
18-U 
18-D 
18-B 
18-T 
18-B 
144 
H-76 
18-A 
113 
15·,C 243, 244, 245 
83 
158 
143 
153 
231 
158 
135 
153 
135 
II-A 138 
Date Existed 
1838 
1855 
1866 
1855 
1848 
1855 
1848 
1863 
1863 
1905 
1833 1829 
1805 1832 1831 1842 1837 1838 
1832 1824 
1838 1824 
1825 
Title Citations 
-.----­

19 Ind. CL Comm. 514 (1968) 
14 Ind. CL Comm. 360 (1964) 
21 Ind. CL Comm. 254 (1969) 
8Ind CL Comm 781 (1960) rev'd 161 Ct. CL 258 (1%3) 13 Ind.. CL Comm, 77 (1964) 
(as amended) 
19 Ind, CL Comm 341 (1968) 
8Ind Cl. Comm. 781 (1960) rev'd 161 Ct. CL 258 (1963) 13 Ind. CI. Comm 77 (1964) 
(as amended) 
19 Ind. Cl. Comm. 500 (1%8) aff'd 192 Ct CL 698 (1970) 
80 Ct CL 410 (1935) 
6 Ind CL Comm. 247 (1958) 
affd 164 Ct CL 389 (1964) 

23 Ind. Cl. Comm. 315 (1970) aff'd 203 Ct CL 426 (1974) 
28 Ind., CL Comm 454 (1972) 
8Ind CL Comm. 78 (1959) 
afI'd 181 Ct.. CL 1202 (1967) 

7Ind Cl Comm 675 (1959) 
5 Ind Cl Comm., 367 (1957) 
15 Ind. CL Comm. 381 (1%5) 
7Ind Cl. Comm., 98 (1959) 
20 Ind.. CL Comm 439 (1969) 
5Ind CL Comm" 367 (1957) 
6 Ind CI. Comm. 464 (1958) 22 Ind Cl. Comm 232 (1969) (as amended) affd 195 Ct CL 365 (1971) 
7 Ind. C! Comm, 98 (1959) 
6 Ind Cl. Comm., 464 (1958) 22 Ind CI. Comm, 232 (1969) (as amended) affd 195 Ct Cl. 365 (1971) 
5Ind CL Comm, 316 (1957) 

Map Area Index-Continued 

Map 
Area 
No. Tribal Owner 

65 Omaha 66 Ponca 67 Otoe & Missouria 
68 Pawnee 69 Osage 70 Osage 71 Osage 72 Quapaw 73 Caddo 74 Medawakanton Band 
(Sioux) 75 Eastern or Mississippi Sioux 76 Yankton (Sioux) 77 Sisseton and Wahpeton Bands (Sioux) 78 Sisseton (Sioux) 79 Teton and Yanktonai (Sioux) 80 Yankton (Sioux) 81 Sioux (Dahcotah) Nation 82 Arikara Mandan Hidatsa (The Three Mfiliated Tribes of the Fort Berthold Reservation) 83 Arikara Mandan 
Hidatsa 84 Assiniboine 85 Crow 86 Blackfeet & Gros Ventre 87 Flathead 88 Upper Pend 
D'OreiIle 
89 Kootenai 
90 Nez Perce 
91 Coeur D'Alene 

134 
Docket or Case Number 
225··A 
.322 
11 

10 
107 
105 
106 
14 
226 
360 

142,362 
.332-A 
.363 
363 
74 
.3.32-C 
74 
350-C 
B-449 
(35o-D) 

J·31 54 E-427 61 61 
61 175 81 
Date Ex:isted 
1854 
1858 
1833 
18.33 1825 1810 1819 1824 1835 1837 
1851 
1825 
1872 
1872 
1869 
1859 
1851 
1870 
1851 
1851 1868 1855 1855 1855 
1855 1859 1887 
Title Citations 
4 Ind Cl. Comm 627 (1957) 12 Ind. CI. COJ?lm. 265 (1963) 2 Ind. CI. Comm. 3.35 (195.3) 
aff'd in part; rev'd in part, 13l Ct. CI. 59.3 (1955) 5 Ind. CL Comm. 268 (1957) 19 Ind. CI. Comm. 447 (1968) 11 Ind. CI. Comm. 73.3 (1962) 19 Ind. CI. Comm. 447 (1968) 1 Ind. Cl. Comm. 469 (1951) 4 Ind. CI. Comm. 201 (1956) 10 Ind. Cl. Comm. 137 (1962) 
iO Ind. CI. Comm. 137 (1962) 
10 Ind. CI. Comm. 137 (1962) 
36 Ind. CL Comm. 472 (1975) 
36 Ind. Cl. Comm. 472 (1975) 
23 Ind. CL Comm. 419 (1970) 
24 Ind. CI. Comm. 208 (1970) 
21 Ind. CL Comm. 371 (1969) 
25 Ind. Cl. Comm. 179 (1971) 
(affd & modified) 
203 Ct. CI. 426 (1974) 

71 Ct. CI. 308 (1930) (see also 2.3 Ind. CI. Comm. 2.36 (1970» 77 Ct. CL 347 (1913) 6 Ind. CI. Comm 98 (1958) 81 Ct. CI. 101 (1935) 8 Ind. CI. Comm. 40 (1959) 8 Ind. Cl. Comm. 40 (1959) 
8 Ind. CI. Comm. 40 (1959) 18 Ind. CI. Comm. 1 (1967) 4 Ind. CI Comm. 1 (1955) 


Map Area Index-Continued 

Map Area  
No.  Tribal Owner  
92  Kalispel  
93  Spokane  
94  Palus  
95  Cayuse  
(Umatilla)  
96  Walla Walla  
(Umatilla)  
97  Umatilla  
98  Yakima  
99  Colville  
100  Lake Tribe  
(Colville)  
101  Sanpoil-Nespelem  
(Colville)  
102  Okanogan  
(Colville)  
103  Methow  
(Colville)  
104  Warm Springs  
105  Clatsop  
106  Tillamook  
107  Tillamook  
(Alcea)  
108  Coquille  
Chetco  
Too-too-to-ney  
(Tillamook)  
109  Snake  
110  Lemhi  
(Shoshone)  
1II  Shoshone  
112  Cheyenne & Arapaho  
Northern Cheyenne  
Northern Arapaho  
1B  Klamath  
114  Modoc  
115  Pitt River  
116  Northern Paiute  

Docket or Case Number 
94 
331 
161 
264 
264 
264 
161 
181 
181 

181 
181 
181 
198 
234 
240 
45230 
45230 
17 
326 
(326-1) 
326 (326-H) 
329 
100 100 347 87 
Date Existed 
1887 
1892 
1859 1859 1859 1859 1859 1872 1872 1872 1872 1872 1859 
1851 
1851 1855 1855 
1879 1875 1869 1865 
1870 1870 1853 1853 
Title Citations 
6 Ind .. CI. Comm. 353 (1958) 
9Ind CL Comm 236 (1961) 
rev'd in part 163 Ct CI. 
58 (1963) (as amended) 17Ind CI. Comm 612 (1967) 
12 Ind., CL Comm 301 (1963) 
8Ind C1 Comm 513 (1960) 
8Ind C1 Comm 513 (1960) 
8 Ind, Cl Comm, 513 (1960) 12 Ind., CI Comm 301 (1963) 4 Ind., CL Comm, 151 (1956) 4Ind C1 Comm 151 (1956) 
4 Ind., C1 Comm, 15 I (1956) 
4 Ind., CL Comm, 15 I (1956) 
4 Ind. CL Comm 15 I (1956) 
8 Ind. CI. Comm, 557 (1960) 
rev'd 177 Ct. CL 184 (1966) 
(as amended) 
18 Ind, CI. Comm 354 (1967) 

6 Ind., CL Comm. 177 (1958) 

affd 196 Ct CI. 780 (1970) 

3 Ind CL Comm 526 (1955) 

103 Ct. CL 494 (1945) 

103 Ct CI. 494 (1945) 

4 Ind.. CL Comm 571 (1956) 
(as amended) 

11 Ind, CL Comm 387 (1962) 

llInd CL Comm., 387 (1962) 

4 ind CL Comm 30-0 (955) 
(Interlocutory Order) 

13 Ind. CI. Comm., 41 (1964) I3 Ind CI. Comm 41 (1964) 
7 Ind..  CI. Comm  815 (1959)  
7 Ind., CL Comm  322 (1959)  
135  



Map Area Index-Continued 

Map Area  Docket or  Date  
No.,  Tribal Owner  Case Number  Existed  Title Citations  
117  Washoe  288  1853  7 Ind, CI. Comm, 266 (1959)  
118  Indians of California  31  1851  8 Ind. CL Comm. I (1959)  
affd 167 Ct. CI. 886 (1964)  
119  Western Shoshone  326 (326--K)  1868  11 Ind., CI. Comm, 387 (1962)  
120  Goshute  326 (326-·J)  1875  11 Ind. CI. Comm. 387 (1962)  
atrd 206 Ct. CI 401 (1975)  
121  Uintah Ute  44  1865  5 Ind CI. Comm. 1 (1957)  
122  Southern Paiute  88, 130, 33O-A  1880  14 Ind" CI. Comm. 618 (1965)  
(compromise)  
123  Hopi  196  1882  23 Ind. CI. Comm, 277 (1970)  
124  Navajo  229  1868  23 Ind. CL Comm 244 (1970)  
125  Acoma  266  1858  18 Ind., CI. Comm. 154 (1967)  
126  Laguna  227  1858  17Ind" CI. Comm. 615 (1967)  
li7  Zia  137  1912  11 Ind. CI. Comm. I3l (1962)  
Jemez  rev'd 165 Ct. CI 501 (1964)  
Santa Ana  19 Ind" Cl. Comm, 56 (1968)  
128  Santo Domingo  355  1905  30 Ind. CL Comm. 259 (1973)  
42 Ind. CI. Comm. 306 (1978)  
129  San I1defonso  354  1905  30 Ind. CL Comm 259 (1973)  
130  Nambe  358  1905  16 Ind. CI. Comm. 393 (1965)  
I3l  Santa Clara  356  1905  30 Ind. Cl. Comm, 259 (1973)  
133  Kiowa, Comanche  257, 259-A  1865-1900  34 Ind" CI. Comm, 263 (1974)  
& Apache  (compromise)  
134  Jicarilla Apache  22-A  1883  12 Ind., CI. Comm, 439 (1963)  
135  Mescalero Apache  22-B  1873  17 Ind. CL Comm. 100 (1966)  
136  Mescalero Apache  22-C  1873  36 Ind. CI. Comm. 7 (1975)  
137  Lipan Apache  22..C  1856  36 Ind. CL Comm. 7 (1975)  
138  Chiricahua Apache  30-A,48-A  1886  19 Ind. CI. Corom. 212 (1968)  
139  Chiricahua Apache  30,48  1886  22 Ind. CI. Comm 533 (1970)  
140  Western Apache  22·D  1873  21 Ind. CI. Comm. 189 (1969)  
141  Tonto Apache  22-J  1873  21 Ind. CI. Comm, 223 (1969)  
142  Havasupai  91  1882  20 Ind. CL Comm. 222 (1968)  
143  Hualapai  90  1883  11 Ind,. CL Comm. 447 (1962)  
144  -Mohave  295,283  1853, 1865  7 Ind. CI. Comm. 219 (1959)  
145  Chemehuevi  351,351-A  1853  14 Iod Cl. Comm. 651 (1965)  
146  Yavapai  22-E  1873  15 Ind., CI. Comm, 68 (1965)  
147  Pima-Maricopa  228  1883  24 Ind. CL Comm. 301 (1970)  
148  Quechan  319  1853, 1884  8 Ind. CL Comm, III (1959)  
149  Papago  345  1916  19 Ind. CL Comm. 394 (1968)  
150  Nooksack  46  1855  3 Ind. CL Comm. 479 (1955)  
136  




Map Area Index-Continued 

Map Area No. 
151 152 153 154 155 156 157 158 
159 160 161 162 163 
164 
165 
166 
167 168 169 170 171 
172 
173 174 175 176 
Tribal Owner 
Lummi 
Samish 
Upper Skagit 
Swinomish 
Lower Skagit 
Kikiallus 
Stillaguamish 
Makah 
S'Klallam 
Snohomish 
Quileute 
Skokomish 
Skykomish 
Snoqualmie 
Suquamish 
Duwamish 
Quinaielt 
Squaxin 
Muckleshoot 
Puyallup 
Steilacoom 
Nisqually 
Lower Chehalis Upper Chehalis Cowlitz Chinook 
Docket or Case Number 
110 
261 
92 
213 
294 
26,3 
207 
6D-A 
134 125 155 296 93 
93 
132 
109 
242 206 98 203 208 
197 
237 237 218 234 
Date Existed 
1859 1859 1859 1859 1859 1859 1859 1859 
1859 1855 1859 1859 1859 
1859 
1859 
1859 
1859 1855 1859 1855 1855 
1855 
1855 1855 1855 1851 
Title Citations 
5 Ind. CI. Comm. 525 (1957) 6 Ind, CI. Comm 159 (1958) 8 Ind, CL Comm" 475 (1960) 26 Ind, CL Comm, 371 (1971) 7 Ind. CI. Comm, 292 (1959) 7 Ind, CL Comm, 456 (1959) 15 Ind" CL Comm. 1 (1965) 23 Ind. CI. Comm. 165 (1970) 
aff'd 195 Ct. CL 539 (1971) 5 Ind" CL Comm 680 (1957) 4 Ind. CL Comm, 549 (1956) 7Ind CL Comm, 31 (1958) 6 Ind. CL Comm, 135 (1958) 9 Ind. CL Comm. 25 (1960) 
afT'd in part, I'ev'd in part, 
178 Ct. CL 570 (1967) 
9 Ind. CL Comm, 25 (1960) 
afT'd in part, rev'd in part, 
178 Ct. CI. 570 (1967) 
5 Ind, CL Comm. 140 (1957) 
afT'd 197 Ct. CI. 775 (1972) 5 Ind, CI. Comm. 117 (1957) see also 79 Ct. CL 530 (1934) 
7 Ind,. CL Comm. I (1958) 21 Ind" CL Comm 295 (1969) 3 Ind" CL Comm. 658 (1955) 17 Ind" CL Comm" 1 (1966) 11 Ind. CI. Comm. 304 (1962) 
aff'd 208 Ct. CL 1033 (1976) 
21 Ind. CI. Comm. 173 (1969) aff'd 208 Ct. CI. 1029 (1976) 8 Ind. Cl. Comm. 436 (1960) 8 Ind, CL Comm. 436 (1960) 21 Ind, CL Comm 143 (1969) 6 Ind, CL Comm. 177 (1958) 
afT'd 196 Ct. CL 780 (1971) 

1ribe 
Acoma 
Alcea (Tillamooks) 
Apache 

Apache, Chiricahua 
Apache, Chiricahua 
Apache, Jicarilla 
Apache, Kiowa, Comanche & A. 
Apache, Lipan 
Apache, Mescalero 
Apache, Mescalero 
Apache, Tonto 
Apache, Western 
Arapaho, Cheyenne 
Arapaho, Northern 
Arikara 
Assiniboine 
Blackfeet and Gross Ventre 
Bois Forte Band (Chippewa) 
Caddo 
California, Indians of 
Cayuse (Umatilla) 
Chehalis, Lower 
Chehalis, Upper 
Chemehuevi 
Cherokee 
Chetco (Tillamook) 
Cheyenne & Arapaho 

Cheyenne, Northern 
Chinook 
Chippewa 

Chippewa, Boise Forte Band Chippewa, Lake Superior Bands Chippewa, Mississippi Bands Chippewa, Ottawa Chippewa, Pembina Band Chippewa, Pillager Band Chippewa, Pillager and Lake 
Wmnibigoshish Bands Chippewa, Red Lake Band Chippewa, Sault St. Marie 
Band Chiricahua Apache Clatsop Coeur D'Alene Colville 
Colville, Lake Tribe Colville, Methow Colville, Okanogan Collville, Sanpoil-Nespelem Comanche, Kiowa, Comanche & Apache Coquille (Tillamook) Cowlitz Creek Crow Dahcotah (Sioux) Nation Delaware Duwamish Eastern 01' Mississippi Sioux Eel River Flathead 
Alphabetical Tribal Index 
Map Area lfibe 
---'------­
125 107 133,134,135 136,137,138 139,140,141 138 139 134 133 137 135 136 141 140 Il2 Il2 
82,83 
84 
86 
45 
73 
1I8 
95 

17.3 174 145 37 108 Il2 112 176 2,7,16,17, 18,19,42,43 44,45,46,47 48,49,50,51 45 
42,43,44,47 42,43,46,47 17 51,52 48,49 48 
50,51 
16 

138,139 105 91 99,100,101, 102,103 100 103 102 101 133 108 175 38,39,40 85 
81 2,4,5,25,31 166 75 24 87 
Fort Berthold Res., Three 
Affiliated Tribes of 
Fox, Sac & 

Goshute Grand River Band (Ottawa) Gros Ventre, Blackfeet & Havasupai Hidatsa Hopi Hualapai Iowa Indians of California Jemez Jicarilla Apache Kalispel Kaskaskia (Peoria) Kickapoo Kikiallus Kiowa, Comanche & Apache Klamath Kootenai Laguna Lake Superior Bands 
(Chippewa) 
Lake Tribe (Colville) 
Lake Winnibigoshish, and 

Pillager Bands (Chippewa) Lemhi (Shoshone) Lipan Apache Lower Chehalis Lower Skagit Lummi Makah Mandan Maricopa, Pima Medawakanton Band (Sioux) Mescalero Apache Methow (Colville) Miami 
Mississippi Bands (Chippewa) Mississippi or Eastern Sioux Missouna, Otoe & Modoc Mohave Muckleshoot Nambe Navajo Nespelem, Sanpoil (Colville) Nez Perce Nisqually Nooksack Northern Arapaho Northern Cheyenne Northern Paiute Okanogan (Colville) Omaha Osage Otoe & Missouria Ottawa 
Ottawa Chippewa 
Ottawa, Grand River Band 
Paiute, Northern 
Paiute, Southern 
Map Area 
82,83 
55,56,57,58, 59,60,61,64 120 20 86 142 
82,83 123 143 60,62,63,64 1I8 127 134 92 36 28,29,32,33 156 133 II3 
89 126 42,43,44,47 
100 
48 

IIO 137 173 155 151 158 82,83 147 74 135,136 103 21,22,23,24 25,26 
42,43,46,47 75 64,67 1I4 144 169 130 124 101 90 172 150 II2 112 1I6 102 
64,65 69,70,71 64,67 2,3,4,7 17,20 17 20 II6 122 


Alphabetical Tribal Index-Continued 


Tribe 
Palus 
Pawnee 
Pembina Band (Chippewa) 
Peoria, Kaskaskia 
Peoria, Piankeshaw 
Piankeshaw (Peoria) 
Pillager and Lake 

Winnibigoshish Bands 
(Chippewa) 
Pillager Band (Chippewa) 
Pima-Maricopa 
Pitt River 
Ponca 
Potawatomi 

Puyallup Quapaw Quechan Quileute Quainaielt Red Lake Band (Chippewa) Sac & Fox 
Saginaw Chippewa Samish San I1defonso Sanpoil-Nespelem (Colville) Santa Ana Santa Clara Santo Domingo Sault S1. Marie Band 
(Chippewa) Seminole Seneca Shawnee Shoshone Shoshone, Lemhi Shoshone, Western Sioux 
Sioux (Dahcotah) Nation 
Sioux, Eastern or MississiptSioux, Medawakanton Ban Sioux, Sisseton Sioux, Sisseton & Wahpeton 
Bands Sioux, Teton and Yanktonai 
Map Area 
94 
68 
51,52 
36 
35 
.31,35 
48 

49 
147 115 66 2,7,8,9,10 11,12,13,14 15,21,22,27 28,32,53 170 
72 
148 161 167 50,51 55,56,57,58 59,60,61,64 18,19 152 129 101 127 
131 
128 
16 

41 1 4,6 111 110 119 74,75,76 77,78,79 SO,81 81 75 74 78 77 
79 
Tribe Map Area 
Sioux, Yankton 76,80 
Sisseton (Sioux) 78 
Sisseton and Wahpeton Bands 77 
(Sioux) Skagit, Lower 155 Skagit, Upper 153 S'Klallam 159 Skokomish 162 Skykomish 163 Spokane 93 Snake 109 Snohomish 160 Snoqualmie 164 Southern Paiute 122 Squaxin 168 Steilacoom 171 Stillaguamish 157 Suquamish 165 Swmomish 154 Teton and Yanktonai (Sioux) 79 Tillamook 106,107,108 Tillamook (Alcea) 107 Tillamook Coquille, Chetco 108 
Too··too-to-ney Tonto Apache 141 Too-too-to-ney (Tillamook) 108 Uintah Ute 121 Umatilla 95,%,97 Umatilla, Cayuse 95 Umatilla, Walla Walla 96 Upper Chehalis 174 Upper Pend D'Oreille 88 Upper Skagit 153 Ute, Uintah 121 Wahpeton, Sisseton & Wahpeton 77 
Bands (Sioux) Walla Walla (Umatilla) 96 Warm Springs 104 Washoe 117 Wea 26,27,28 
29,30 Western Apache 140 Western Shoshone 119 Winnebago 54 Wyandot 2,4 Yakima 98 Yankton (Sioux) 76,80 Yanktonai, Teton & Yanktonai (Sioux) 79 Yavapai 146 Zia 127 



Court of Claims Reports to West Reporting System Citator 
(Court of Claims cases cited in the Introduction and Index) 
71Ct CL 308 
77 Ct. CI 226 
79Ct CI 530 
80CtCI 410 
89 Ct Ct. 378 

103 Ct CI. 494 59 F. Supp 934 122 Ct CL 348 
131 Ct. CI 593 131 F.. Supp.. 265 146 Ct CL 421 175 F. Supp 926 147 Ct CL 315 177 F. Supp. 452 161 Ct CL 258 315 F.2d 906 163 Ct. CL 58 164 Ct CL 389 165 Ct CL 479 165 Ct CL 501 167 Ct CL 886 173 Ct. CI 917 177 Ct CL 184 178 Ct. CL 570 372 F..2d 951 179 Ct. CL 8 383 F2d 991 179 Ct. CL 473 391 F.2d 614 180 Ct CL 375 181 Ct CL 1202 192 Ct. CI 698 428 F.2d 1274 195 Ct CL 365 195 Ct CL 539 196 Ct CI 780 197 Ct CL 775 
201 Ct. CL 386 476 F..2d 1290 203 Ct. CL 426 490 F2d 935 205 Ct. CL 765 507 F..2d 852 
206 Ct CI 401 512 F.2d 1398 206 Ct CI 649 513 F..2d 1383 206 Ct. CL 850 206 Ct. CI. 867 207 Ct CL 254 518 F.2d 556 207 Ct. CI 958 207 Ct. CL 959 207 Ct. CI 960 208 Ct. CL 1029 208 Ct CL 1033 
*u.s. GOVERNMENT PRINTING OFFICE: 1979-271-733 





